Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: sars-cov-, covid-, gbs, infection, case, syndrome, polyneuropathy, cases, patient, doi, report, guillain-, patients, doi org, https


free information in English and Mandarin on the novel coronavirus COVID- 19. The COVID-19 resource centre is hosted on Elsevier Connect, the company's public news and information website. Elsevier hereby grants permission to make all its COVID-19-related research that is available on the COVID-19 resource centre - including this research content - immediately available in PubMed Central and other publicly funded repositories, such as the WHO COVID database with rights for unrestricted research re-use and analyses in any form or by any means with acknowledgement of the original source. These permissions are granted for free by Elsevier for as long as the COVID-19 resource centre remains active. Available online at www.sciencedirect.com Neuromuscular Disorders 30 (2020) 859–861 www.elsevier.com/locate/nmd Case report Guillain-Barré-Strohl syndrome and COVID-19: Case report and literature review ∗ Laura Diez-Porras , Enric Vergés, Francisco Gil, M José Vidal, Joan Massons, Adrià Arboix Received 18 June 2020; received in revised form 4 August 2020; accepted 7 August 2020 Abstract In recent months, the new beta-coronavirus has caused a pandemic with symptoms affecting mainly the respiratory system. It is established that the virus may play a neurotropic role and in recent months several cases of Guillain-Barré-Strohl syndrome (GBS) have been reported in patients infected with COVID-19. We report the case of a 54-year-old patient with acute demyelinating polyneuropathy during infection by SARS-CoV-2 who progressed clinically to require assisted ventilation. After several weeks of specific symptomatic treatment, the patient had a favorable outcome. In conclusion, despite being a rare complication, we think it is important to consider the possibility of diffuse involvement of the peripheral nervous system in patients with COVID-19 to adjust clinical monitoring and treatment in these cases. © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. Keywords: Covid-19; Guillain-Barré; SARS-CoV-2. 1. Introduction acute demyelinating neuropathy during infection by SARS- CoV-2 who initially had a clinical progression leading to Since December 2019, the world is living a pandemic admission to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and subsequently China. The symptoms caused by SARS-CoV-2 are similar to those of the 2003 coronavirus SARS-CoV and both share the 2. Case report same receptor as gateway to the cell, angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) . Some cases of involvement of the A 54-year-old male with hypertension and obesity peripheral nervous system have also been described, mainly in presented to the emergency room complaining of hypoesthesia the form of myalgia, but also as acute polyneuropathy . in
