Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: sars-cov-, covid-, gbs, infection, case, syndrome, polyneuropathy, cases, patient, doi, report, guillain-, patients, doi org, https


and obesity peripheral nervous system have also been described, mainly in presented to the emergency room complaining of hypoesthesia the form of myalgia, but also as acute polyneuropathy . in the left mandibular region, progressing paraparesis of Guillain-Barré-Strohl Syndrome (GBS) is an acute upper limbs and difficulty walking that started the previous polyneuropathy with an incidence of 1.11/100,000 inhabitants. day. Febrile syndrome, non-productive cough and myalgia The etiopathogenesis of polyneuropathy in GBS is believed started five days before and were ongoing when he consulted. to be due to molecular mimicry between epitopes of He was hemodynamically stable. Neurological examination microorganisms and peripheral nerve glycolipids . In 2/3 showed the patient to be conscious, oriented, with preserved of the patients with GBS there is a history of respiratory higher functions. He had no cranial pair involvement. The or gastrointestinal infection in the previous days or weeks. muscular balance by muscle groups evidenced an asymmetric Some viruses have been described as causative agents of weakness in both upper limbs obtaining a muscular balance GBS (Influenza A, cytomegalovirus, Zika, Chikungunya…) of 2/5 according to the MRC scale (Medical Research ; however, there are hardly data in the literature about Council grading) in the left upper limb globally and 3/5 GBS by coronavirus. We report the case of a patient with in the muscles dependent on the right ulnar nerve. He had no axial or lower limb weakness. He had distal ∗ Corresponding author. hypoesthesia in the fingers of both hands with no sensory E-mail address: (L. Diez-Porras). level or hypoesthesia of the lower limbs. Deep tendon 0960-8966/©2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. 860 L. Diez-Porras, E. Vergés and F. Gil et al. / Neuromuscular Disorders 30 (2020) 859–861 reflexes were globally absent. Laboratory tests evidenced 23] (see supplementary Table 1 and all case report references eosinopenia 0.0% with no other disorders in the blood in the supplementary appendix). To note, the great majority count (no leukocytosis, lymphopenia, or thrombocytopenia), of the cases reported (86.5%) were older than 50 years with negative procalcitonin, C-reactive protein (CRP) 3.7 mg/dL, a male predominance. Only the 29.7% had anosmia and/or lactate dehydrogenase 286 IU/L (lower 250), creatine kinase ageusia during the COVID-19 infection. There is probably no 578 IU/L (x 2.5), serum electrolytes, normal liver and direct root infection as the virus was not detected in the CSF kidney function. Nasopharyngeal swab for SARS-CoV-2 of 23 patients.
