Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: sars-cov-, covid-, gbs, infection, case, syndrome, polyneuropathy, cases, patient, doi, report, guillain-, patients, doi org, https


578 IU/L (x 2.5), serum electrolytes, normal liver and direct root infection as the virus was not detected in the CSF kidney function. Nasopharyngeal swab for SARS-CoV-2 of 23 patients. polymerase chain reaction was positive. Cerebrospinal fluid A viral infection can cause neuromuscular damage through (CSF) analysis showed mild albuminocytologic dissociation different mechanisms: direct damage as neuritis or myositis (protein levels 52 mg/dL and absence of leukocytes). The in the context of an active infection, as part of a systemic chest X-ray did not show parenchymal condensations. A inflammatory response syndrome or by cross-immunity. The neurophysiological study was performed at 3 days of the inflammation caused by some coronaviruses can trigger onset of neurological symptoms, which evidenced sensory immune dysfunction with release of several proinflammatory and motor polyneuropathy, with signs of demyelination immune factors that, besides damaging the lungs, could (conduction blocks, absence of F waves in the right ulnar damage other organs and/or nerves. Recently, it has been nerve and axon potentials in the F response of the right described a systemic hyperinflammation in patients with tibial nerve) of diffuse distribution, but mainly affecting COVID-19 with macrophage activation syndrome. Also, some the nerves of the upper limbs (see supplementary Table). cases of GBS by Zika virus have led to hypothesize this Furthermore, antiganglioside antibodies were measured in possible parainfectious pathogenesis . It must be noted serum, obtaining IgM for GM2 and GD3 and a weak that in our case and several cases of GBS by COVID- IgG band for GT1b. According to the diagnostic Brighton 19 reported to date, neurological dysfunction starts a few Collaboration criteria, our patient was diagnosed with acute days after infection by SARS-CoV-2 and/or overlaps COVID- demyelinating polyneuropathy . 19 symptoms. Besides that, some authors found a higher Targeted therapy for SARS-CoV-2 was started with prevalence of axonal variant of GBS in this group . This azithromycin, hydroxychloroquine and lopinavir/ritonavir. As leads to think that the peripheral nervous system injury could a specific treatment for GBS he started infusion of human be due to the acute inflammatory response. In our case, intravenous immunoglobulins (IVIg) at 0.4 g/kg/day for 5 interleukin-6 levels are not available, but other inflammatory days. After administration of the first dose the patient parameters such as ferritin or CRP were high. On the reported “flushing” and had a presyncopal episode. As it was other hand, the diffuse distribution of polyneuropathy, the suspected
