Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: sars-cov-, covid-, gbs, infection, case, syndrome, polyneuropathy, cases, patient, doi, report, guillain-, patients, doi org, https


patient parameters such as ferritin or CRP were high. On the reported “flushing” and had a presyncopal episode. As it was other hand, the diffuse distribution of polyneuropathy, the suspected to be an adverse effect to IVIg, no new doses demyelinating findings in the neurographic study and the were administered. The next two days he had respiratory presence of antiganglioside antibodies would support an impairment and increase in the laboratory inflammatory immune-mediated origin. Additionally, a postinfectious origin parameters, requiring invasive ventilation and support by can not be excluded because Sars-CoV-2 infection can have the ICU. After 14 days he had clinical and laboratory a long incubation period. Some of the cases published to improvement and progressed to extubation. After discharge date, were probably caused by a postinfectious and molecular from the ICU he had severe flaccid tetraparesis of proximal mimicry, as the onset of polyneuropathy occurred more than predominance and muscular atrophy. All of this suggested two weeks after the infection, the nasopharyngeal swab for an overadded critical illness myopathy. He also had severe SARS-CoV-2 polymerase chain reaction had become negative bilateral facial palsy and dysphagia, both probably explained during the GBS in some of them and had a good response by progression of the GBS rather than overadded critical to IVIg . To remark, a recent study has illness myopathy. The patient underwent rehabilitation and shown that the spike protein of SARS-CoV-2 binds also to had a good response. Seven weeks later, he was discharged sialic acid–containing glycoproteins and gangliosides on cell and able to walk independently with support. The patient gave surfaces . Therefore, a cross-reaction between epitopes his consent to publish this case report. within the SARS-CoV-2 spike saccharides and gangliosides of peripheral nerve is a feasible possibility. Despite this, 3. Discussion there is a lack of scientific evidence for this association at the moment. We consider this is important in order to The association between GBS and SARS-CoV-2 is still take precautions both in the indications of a future vaccine theoretical. A study performed in Italy compares the incidence and in treating patients with the transfer of IgG from other of GBS in its region in the year 2020 vs 2017–2019 reconvalescent COVID-19 patients. and reports a 5.41 times increase . Some cases of As limitations we would highlight that in our patient polyneuropathy caused by other types of coronavirus have there is no screening available
