Venous thromboembolic diseases: diagnosis, management and thrombophilia testing
KEYWORDS: people, treatment, dvt, anticoagulation, committee, anticoagulation treatment, evidence, recommendations, vte, cancer, risk, agreed, clinical, recommendation, d-dimer


Overview This guideline covers diagnosing and managing venous thromboembolic diseases in adults. It aims to support rapid diagnosis and effective treatment for people who develop deep vein thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE). It also covers testing for conditions that can make a DVT or PE more likely, such as thrombophilia (a blood clotting disorder) and cancer. It does not cover pregnant women. See the MHRA advice on warfarin and other anticoagulants – monitoring of patients during the COVID-19 pandemic, which includes reports of supratherapeutic anticoagulation with warfarin. Who is it for? • Commissioners and providers of venous thromboembolism services • Healthcare professionals in primary, secondary and tertiary care • Adults (18 and over) with suspected or confirmed DVT or PE, their families and carers • First-degree relatives of people with inherited thrombophilia or other venous thromboembolic diseases Recommendations People have the right to be involved in discussions and make informed decisions about their care, as described in NICE's information on making decisions about your care. Making decisions using NICE guidelines explains how we use words to show the strength (or certainty) of our recommendations, and has information about prescribing medicines (including off-label use), professional guidelines, standards and laws (including on consent and mental capacity), and safeguarding. 1.1 Diagnosis and initial management NICE has produced a visual summary of the recommendations on diagnosis and initial management of suspected deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE). Signs or symptoms of DVT 1.1.1 For people who present with signs or symptoms of DVT, such as a swollen or painful leg, assess their general medical history and do a physical examination to exclude other causes. [2012] 1.1.2 If DVT is suspected, use the 2-level DVT Wells score (table 1) to estimate the clinical probability of DVT. [2012] Table 1 Two-level DVT Wells score Clinical feature Points Active cancer (treatment ongoing, within 6 months, or palliative) 1 Paralysis, paresis or recent plaster immobilisation of the lower extremities 1 Recently bedridden for 3 days or more, or major surgery within 12 weeks 1 requiring general or regional anaesthesia Localised tenderness along the distribution of the deep venous system 1 Clinical feature Points Entire leg swollen 1 Calf swelling at least 3 cm larger than asymptomatic side 1 Pitting oedema confined to the symptomatic leg 1 Collateral superficial veins (non-varicose) 1 Previously documented DVT 1 An alternative diagnosis is at least as likely as DVT
