Venous thromboembolic diseases: diagnosis, management and thrombophilia testing
KEYWORDS: people, treatment, dvt, anticoagulation, committee, anticoagulation treatment, evidence, recommendations, vte, cancer, risk, agreed, clinical, recommendation, d-dimer


committee made the 2023 recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on diagnosis and initial management in people with COVID-19. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review I: diagnosing VTE in people with COVID-19. D-dimer testing 1.1.12 When offering D-dimer testing for suspected DVT or PE, consider a point-of-care test if laboratory facilities are not immediately available. [2020] 1.1.13 If using a point-of-care D-dimer test, choose a fully quantitative test. [2020] 1.1.14 When using a point-of-care or laboratory D-dimer test, consider an age-adjusted D-dimer test threshold for people aged over 50. [2020] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2020 recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on D-dimer testing. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review A: D-dimer testing in the diagnosis of deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism. Signs or symptoms of PE 1.1.15 For people who present with signs or symptoms of PE, such as chest pain, shortness of breath or coughing up blood, assess their general medical history, do a physical examination and offer a chest X-ray to exclude other causes. [2012] Pulmonary embolism rule-out criteria (the PERC rule) 1.1.16 If clinical suspicion of PE is low based on the overall clinical impression (from general medical history, physical examination and any initial investigations such as electrocardiography or chest X-ray), and other diagnoses are feasible, consider using the pulmonary embolism rule-out criteria (PERC) to help determine whether any further investigations for PE are needed. Be aware that the PERC rule has not been validated in people with COVID-19. [2020, amended 2023] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2020 recommendation and amended the recommendation in 2023 and how it might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on the PERC rule. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review B: the use of the pulmonary embolism rule-out criteria for diagnosis of pulmonary embolism and supporting document: refresh of recommendation 1.1.16 on the PERC rule. 1.1.17 If PE is suspected, use the 2-level PE Wells score (table 2) to estimate the clinical probability of PE. [2012] Table 2 Two-level PE Wells score Clinical feature Points Clinical signs and symptoms of DVT (minimum of leg swelling and pain 3 with palpation of the
