Venous thromboembolic diseases: diagnosis, management and thrombophilia testing
KEYWORDS: people, treatment, dvt, anticoagulation, committee, anticoagulation treatment, evidence, recommendations, vte, cancer, risk, agreed, clinical, recommendation, d-dimer


a validated risk stratification tool to determine the suitability of outpatient treatment. [2020] 1.2.2 When offering outpatient treatment to people with suspected PE, follow recommendations 1.1.15 to 1.1.21 on diagnosis and initial management. [2020] 1.2.3 When offering outpatient treatment to people with confirmed PE, follow the recommendations in the section on anticoagulation treatment for confirmed DVT or PE. [2020] 1.2.4 Agree a plan for monitoring and follow-up with people having outpatient treatment for suspected or confirmed low-risk PE. Give them: • written information on symptoms and signs to look out for, including the potential complications of thrombosis and of treatment • direct contact details of a healthcare professional or team with expertise in thrombosis who can discuss any new symptoms or signs, or other concerns • information about out-of-hours services they can contact when their healthcare team is not available. [2020] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2020 recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on outpatient treatment for low-risk PE. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review E: outpatient treatment of low-risk pulmonary embolism. 1.3 Anticoagulation treatment for suspected or confirmed DVT or PE NICE has produced a visual summary of the recommendations on anticoagulation treatment for DVT or PE. 1.3.1 When offering anticoagulation treatment, follow the recommendations on shared decision making and supporting adherence in the NICE guidelines on medicines optimisation, medicines adherence, patient experience in adult NHS services and shared decision making. [2020] Interim therapeutic anticoagulation for suspected DVT or PE 1.3.2 Follow the recommendations on when to offer interim therapeutic anticoagulation for suspected proximal DVT or PE in the section on diagnosis and initial management. [2020] 1.3.3 If possible, choose an interim anticoagulant that can be continued if DVT or PE is confirmed (see the section on anticoagulation treatment for confirmed DVT or PE). [2020] In March 2020, direct-acting anticoagulants and some low molecular weight heparins (LMWHs) were off label for the treatment of suspected DVT or PE. See NICE's information on prescribing medicines. 1.3.4 When using interim therapeutic anticoagulation for suspected proximal DVT or PE: • carry out baseline blood tests including full blood count, renal and hepatic function, prothrombin time (PT) and activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) • do not wait for the results of baseline blood tests before starting anticoagulation treatment • review, and if necessary act
