Venous thromboembolic diseases: diagnosis, management and thrombophilia testing
KEYWORDS: people, treatment, dvt, anticoagulation, committee, anticoagulation treatment, evidence, recommendations, vte, cancer, risk, agreed, clinical, recommendation, d-dimer


prothrombin time (PT) and activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) • do not wait for the results of baseline blood tests before starting anticoagulation treatment • review, and if necessary act on, the results of baseline blood tests within 24 hours of starting interim therapeutic anticoagulation. [2020] Anticoagulation treatment for confirmed DVT or PE 1.3.5 Offer anticoagulation treatment for at least 3 months to people with confirmed proximal DVT or PE. For recommendations on treatment after 3 months, see the section on long-term anticoagulation for secondary prevention. [2020] 1.3.6 If not already done, carry out baseline blood tests, as outlined in recommendation 1.3.4, when starting anticoagulation treatment. [2020] 1.3.7 When offering anticoagulation treatment, take into account comorbidities, contraindications and the person's preferences. Follow the recommendations on anticoagulation treatment in the sections on: • DVT or PE in people at extremes of body weight • PE with haemodynamic instability • DVT or PE with renal impairment or established renal failure • DVT or PE with active cancer • DVT or PE with triple positive antiphospholipid syndrome. [2020] 1.3.8 Offer either apixaban or rivaroxaban to people with confirmed proximal DVT or PE (but see recommendations 1.3.11 to 1.3.20 for people with any of the clinical features listed in recommendation 1.3.7). If neither apixaban nor rivaroxaban is suitable offer: • LMWH for at least 5 days followed by dabigatran or edoxaban or • LMWH concurrently with a vitamin K antagonist (VKA) for at least 5 days, or until the international normalised ratio (INR) is at least 2.0 in 2 consecutive readings, followed by a VKA on its own. [2020] 1.3.9 Do not routinely offer unfractionated heparin (UFH) with a VKA to treat confirmed proximal DVT or PE unless the person has renal impairment or established renal failure (see recommendations 1.3.13 and 1.3.14) or an increased risk of bleeding. [2020] 1.3.10 Do not routinely offer self-management or self-monitoring of INR to people who have had DVT or PE and are having treatment with a VKA. [2012] Anticoagulation treatment for DVT or PE in people at extremes of body weight 1.3.11 Consider anticoagulation treatment with regular monitoring of therapeutic levels for people with confirmed proximal DVT or PE who weigh less than 50 kg or more than 120 kg, to ensure effective anticoagulation. Note the cautions and requirements for dose adjustment and monitoring in the medicine's summary of product characteristics (SPC), and follow locally agreed protocols
