Venous thromboembolic diseases: diagnosis, management and thrombophilia testing
KEYWORDS: people, treatment, dvt, anticoagulation, committee, anticoagulation treatment, evidence, recommendations, vte, cancer, risk, agreed, clinical, recommendation, d-dimer


than 120 kg, to ensure effective anticoagulation. Note the cautions and requirements for dose adjustment and monitoring in the medicine's summary of product characteristics (SPC), and follow locally agreed protocols or advice from a specialist or multidisciplinary team. [2020] Anticoagulation treatment for PE with haemodynamic instability 1.3.12 For people with confirmed PE and haemodynamic instability, offer continuous UFH infusion and consider thrombolytic therapy (see the section on thrombolytic therapy). [2020] Anticoagulation treatment for DVT or PE with renal impairment or established renal failure In March 2020, some LMWHs were off label for the treatment of DVT or PE in people with severe renal impairment (estimated creatinine clearance 15 ml/min to 30 ml/min) or established renal failure (estimated creatinine clearance less than 15 ml/min). See NICE's information on prescribing medicines. 1.3.13 Offer people with confirmed proximal DVT or PE and renal impairment (estimated creatinine clearance between 15 ml/min and 50 ml/min) one of: • apixaban • rivaroxaban • LMWH for at least 5 days followed by: － edoxaban or － dabigatran if estimated creatinine clearance is 30 ml/min or above • LMWH or UFH, given concurrently with a VKA for at least 5 days or until the INR is at least 2.0 in 2 consecutive readings, followed by a VKA on its own. Note the cautions and requirements for dose adjustment and monitoring in the medicine's SPC, and follow locally agreed protocols or advice from a specialist or multidisciplinary team. [2020] 1.3.14 Offer people with confirmed proximal DVT or PE and established renal failure (estimated creatinine clearance less than 15 ml/min) one of: • LMWH • UFH • LMWH or UFH concurrently with a VKA for at least 5 days or until the INR is at least 2.0 in 2 consecutive readings, followed by a VKA on its own. Note the cautions and requirements for dose adjustment and monitoring in the medicine's SPC, and follow locally agreed protocols or advice from a specialist or multidisciplinary team. [2020] Anticoagulation treatment for DVT or PE with active cancer In March 2020, most anticoagulants were off label for the treatment of DVT or PE in people with active cancer. See NICE's information on prescribing medicines. 1.3.15 Offer people with active cancer and confirmed proximal DVT or PE anticoagulation treatment for 3 to 6 months. Review at 3 to 6 months according to clinical need. For recommendations on treatment after 3 to 6 months, see
