Venous thromboembolic diseases: diagnosis, management and thrombophilia testing
KEYWORDS: people, treatment, dvt, anticoagulation, committee, anticoagulation treatment, evidence, recommendations, vte, cancer, risk, agreed, clinical, recommendation, d-dimer


in people with suspected or confirmed deep vein thrombosis and/or pulmonary embolism. Evidence review G: economic modelling report for pharmacological treatment also underpins recommendations 1.3.8, 1.3.9, 1.3.17 and 1.3.18. 1.4 Long-term anticoagulation for secondary prevention 1.4.1 Assess and discuss the benefits and risks of continuing, stopping or changing the anticoagulant with people who have had anticoagulation treatment for 3 months (3 to 6 months for people with active cancer) after a proximal DVT or PE. Follow the recommendations on shared decision making and supporting adherence in the NICE guidelines on medicines optimisation, medicines adherence and patient experience in adult NHS services. [2020] 1.4.2 Consider stopping anticoagulation treatment 3 months (3 to 6 months for people with active cancer) after a provoked DVT or PE if the provoking factor is no longer present and the clinical course has been uncomplicated. If anticoagulation treatment is stopped, give advice about the risk of recurrence and provide: • written information on symptoms and signs to look out for • direct contact details of a healthcare professional or team with expertise in thrombosis who can discuss any new symptoms or signs, or other concerns • information about out-of-hours services they can contact when their healthcare team is not available. [2020] 1.4.3 Consider continuing anticoagulation beyond 3 months (6 months for people with active cancer) after an unprovoked DVT or PE. Base the decision on the balance between the person's risk of VTE recurrence and their risk of bleeding. Discuss the risks and benefits of long-term anticoagulation with the person, and take their preferences into account. [2020] 1.4.4 Explain to people with unprovoked DVT or PE and a low bleeding risk that the benefits of continuing anticoagulation treatment are likely to outweigh the risks. [2020] 1.4.5 Do not rely solely on predictive risk tools to assess the need for long-term anticoagulation treatment. [2020] 1.4.6 Consider using the HAS-BLED score for major bleeding risk to assess the risk of major bleeding in people having anticoagulation treatment for unprovoked proximal DVT or PE. Discuss stopping anticoagulation if the HAS-BLED score is 4 or more and cannot be modified. [2020] 1.4.7 Take into account the person's preferences and their clinical situation when selecting an anticoagulant for long-term treatment. [2020] 1.4.8 For people who do not have renal impairment, active cancer, established triple positive antiphospholipid syndrome or extreme body weight (less than 50 kg or more than 120 kg): •
