Venous thromboembolic diseases: diagnosis, management and thrombophilia testing
KEYWORDS: people, treatment, dvt, anticoagulation, committee, anticoagulation treatment, evidence, recommendations, vte, cancer, risk, agreed, clinical, recommendation, d-dimer


1.4.8 For people who do not have renal impairment, active cancer, established triple positive antiphospholipid syndrome or extreme body weight (less than 50 kg or more than 120 kg): • offer continued treatment with the current anticoagulant if it is well tolerated or • if the current treatment is not well tolerated, or the clinical situation or person's preferences have changed, consider switching to apixaban if the current treatment is a direct-acting anticoagulant other than apixaban. [2020] 1.4.9 For people with renal impairment, active cancer, established triple positive antiphospholipid syndrome or extreme body weight (less than 50 kg or more than 120 kg), consider carrying on with the current treatment if it is well tolerated. [2020] 1.4.10 If anticoagulation treatment fails follow the recommendation on treatment failure. [2020] 1.4.11 For people who decline continued anticoagulation treatment, consider aspirin 75 mg or 150 mg daily. In March 2020, the use of aspirin for secondary prevention of DVT or PE was off label. See NICE's information on prescribing medicines. [2020] 1.4.12 Review general health, risk of VTE recurrence, bleeding risk and treatment preferences at least once a year for people taking long-term anticoagulation treatment or aspirin. [2020] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2020 recommendations on reviewing anticoagulation treatment and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on long-term anticoagulation for secondary prevention. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in: • evidence review F: what factors determine the optimum duration of pharmacological treatment for DVT or PE in people with a VTE? • evidence review D: pharmacological treatment in people with suspected or confirmed deep vein thrombosis and/or pulmonary embolism (for recommendations 1.4.1 and 1.4.7 to 1.4.11). Evidence review G: economic modelling report for pharmacological treatment also underpins recommendation 1.4.8. 1.5 Information and support for people having anticoagulation treatment 1.5.1 Give people having anticoagulation treatment verbal and written information about: • how to use anticoagulants • how long to take anticoagulants • possible side effects of anticoagulants and what to do if these occur • how other medications, foods and alcohol can affect oral anticoagulation treatment • any monitoring needed for their anticoagulant treatment • how anticoagulants may affect their dental treatment • taking anticoagulants if they are planning pregnancy or become pregnant • how anticoagulants may affect activities such as sports and travel • when and how to seek
