Venous thromboembolic diseases: diagnosis, management and thrombophilia testing
KEYWORDS: people, treatment, dvt, anticoagulation, committee, anticoagulation treatment, evidence, recommendations, vte, cancer, risk, agreed, clinical, recommendation, d-dimer


dental treatment • taking anticoagulants if they are planning pregnancy or become pregnant • how anticoagulants may affect activities such as sports and travel • when and how to seek medical help. [2012] 1.5.2 Give people who are having anticoagulation treatment information and an 'anticoagulant alert card' that is specific to their treatment. Advise them to carry the 'anticoagulant alert card' at all times. [2012] 1.5.3 Be aware that heparins are of animal origin and that apixaban and rivaroxaban contain lactose from cow's milk. For people who have concerns about using animal products because of a religious or ethical belief, or a food intolerance, see the section on giving information and planning for discharge in the NICE guideline on venous thromboembolism in over 16s. [2012, amended 2020] 1.6 Thrombolytic therapy DVT 1.6.1 Consider catheter-directed thrombolytic therapy for people with symptomatic iliofemoral DVT who have: • symptoms lasting less than 14 days and • good functional status and • a life expectancy of 1 year or more and • a low risk of bleeding. [2012] See NICE's interventional procedures guidance on ultrasound-enhanced, catheter-directed thrombolysis for deep vein thrombosis. PE 1.6.2 Consider pharmacological systemic thrombolytic therapy for people with PE and haemodynamic instability(see also the section on anticoagulation treatment for PE with haemodynamic instability). [2012] 1.6.3 Do not offer pharmacological systemic thrombolytic therapy to people with PE and haemodynamic stability with or without right ventricular dysfunction (see also the section on anticoagulation treatment for DVT or PE). If the person develops haemodynamic instability, refer to recommendation 1.6.2. [2015] See NICE's interventional procedures guidance on ultrasound-enhanced, catheter-directed thrombolysis for pulmonary embolism. 1.7 Mechanical interventions Inferior vena caval filters 1.7.1 Do not offer an inferior vena caval (IVC) filter to people with proximal DVT or PE unless: • it is part of a prospective clinical study or • anticoagulation is contraindicated or a PE has occurred during anticoagulation treatment (see recommendations 1.7.2 and 1.7.3). [2020] 1.7.2 Consider an IVC filter for people with proximal DVT or PE when anticoagulation treatment is contraindicated. Remove the IVC filter when anticoagulation treatment is no longer contraindicated and has been established. [2020] 1.7.3 Consider an IVC filter for people with proximal DVT or PE who have a PE while taking anticoagulation treatment only after taking the steps outlined in the recommendation on treatment failure. [2020] 1.7.4 Before fitting an IVC filter, ensure that there is a strategy in
