Venous thromboembolic diseases: diagnosis, management and thrombophilia testing
KEYWORDS: people, treatment, dvt, anticoagulation, committee, anticoagulation treatment, evidence, recommendations, vte, cancer, risk, agreed, clinical, recommendation, d-dimer


while taking anticoagulation treatment only after taking the steps outlined in the recommendation on treatment failure. [2020] 1.7.4 Before fitting an IVC filter, ensure that there is a strategy in place for it to be removed at the earliest possible opportunity. Document the strategy and review it if the clinical situation changes. [2020] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2020 recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on IVC filters. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review H: inferior vena caval filters for people with venous thromboembolism. Elastic graduated compression stockings 1.7.5 Do not offer elastic graduated compression stockings to prevent post-thrombotic syndrome or VTE recurrence after a DVT. This recommendation does not cover the use of elastic stockings for the management of leg symptoms after DVT. [2015] 1.7.6 If offering elastic graduated compression stockings to manage leg symptoms after DVT, explain how to apply and use them, how long they should be worn and when they should be replaced. [2012] Percutaneous mechanical thrombectomy See NICE's interventional procedures guidance on percutaneous mechanical thrombectomy for acute deep vein thrombosis of the leg. 1.8 Investigations for cancer 1.8.1 For people with unprovoked DVT or PE who are not known to have cancer, review the medical history and baseline blood test results including full blood count, renal and hepatic function, PT and APTT, and offer a physical examination. [2020] 1.8.2 Do not offer further investigations for cancer to people with unprovoked DVT or PE unless they have relevant clinical symptoms or signs (for further information, see the NICE guideline on suspected cancer). [2020] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2020 recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on investigations for cancer. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review C: investigations for cancer in people with unprovoked venous thromboembolism. 1.9 Thrombophilia testing 1.9.1 Do not offer testing for hereditary thrombophilia to people who are continuing anticoagulation treatment. [2012, amended 2020] 1.9.2 Do not offer thrombophilia testing to people who have had provoked DVT or PE. [2012] 1.9.3 Consider testing for antiphospholipid antibodies in people who have had unprovoked DVT or PE if it is planned to stop anticoagulation treatment, but be aware that these tests can be affected by anticoagulants and specialist
