Venous thromboembolic diseases: diagnosis, management and thrombophilia testing
KEYWORDS: people, treatment, dvt, anticoagulation, committee, anticoagulation treatment, evidence, recommendations, vte, cancer, risk, agreed, clinical, recommendation, d-dimer


in people who have had unprovoked DVT or PE if it is planned to stop anticoagulation treatment, but be aware that these tests can be affected by anticoagulants and specialist advice may be needed. [2012, amended 2020] 1.9.4 Consider testing for hereditary thrombophilia in people who have had unprovoked DVT or PE and who have a first-degree relative who has had DVT or PE if it is planned to stop anticoagulation treatment, but be aware that these tests can be affected by anticoagulants and specialist advice may be needed. [2012, amended 2020] 1.9.5 Do not routinely offer thrombophilia testing to first-degree relatives of people with a history of DVT or PE and thrombophilia. [2012] Terms used in this guideline Active cancer Receiving active antimitotic treatment; or diagnosed within the past 6 months; or recurrent or metastatic; or inoperable. Excludes squamous skin cancer and basal cell carcinoma. Estimated creatinine clearance Creatinine clearance estimated using the Cockcroft and Gault formula; see the BNF's information on prescribing in renal impairment. Provoked DVT or PE DVT or PE in a person with a recent (within 3 months) and transient major clinical risk factor for VTE, such as surgery, trauma, significant immobility (bedbound, unable to walk unaided or likely to spend a substantial proportion of the day in bed or in a chair), pregnancy or puerperium – or in a person who is having hormonal therapy (combined oral contraceptive pill or hormone replacement therapy). Proximal DVT DVT at or above the level of the popliteal trifurcation area. Unprovoked DVT or PE DVT or PE in a person with no recent major clinical risk factor for VTE (see provoked DVT or PE) who is not having hormonal therapy (combined oral contraceptive pill or hormone replacement therapy). Wells score Clinical prediction rule for estimating the probability of DVT or PE. There are a number of versions of Wells scores available. This guideline recommends the 2-level DVT Wells score and the 2-level PE Wells score. Recommendations for research The guideline committee has made the following recommendations for research. Key recommendations for research 1 Clinical and cost effectiveness of inferior vena caval filters in people with venous thromboembolism What is the short- and long-term clinical and cost effectiveness of inferior vena caval filters in people with venous thromboembolism (VTE)? [2020] For a short explanation of why the committee made the recommendation for research, see the rationale section on inferior
