Venous thromboembolic diseases: diagnosis, management and thrombophilia testing
KEYWORDS: people, treatment, dvt, anticoagulation, committee, anticoagulation treatment, evidence, recommendations, vte, cancer, risk, agreed, clinical, recommendation, d-dimer


inferior vena caval filters in people with venous thromboembolism (VTE)? [2020] For a short explanation of why the committee made the recommendation for research, see the rationale section on inferior vena caval filters. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review H: inferior vena caval filters for people with VTE. 2 Clinical and cost effectiveness of direct-acting oral anticoagulants based on individual patient data What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of direct-acting oral anticoagulants (DOACs) compared with each other, with low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) plus a vitamin K antagonist (VKA), with LMWH alone, with placebo and with aspirin for the initial and long-term treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) based on individual patient data from existing trials? [2020] For a short explanation of why the committee made the recommendation for research, see the rationale section on anticoagulation treatment for confirmed DVT or PE. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review D: pharmacological treatment in people with suspected or confirmed DVT and/or PE. 3 Prediction tools compared with clinical judgement What is the prognostic accuracy of a tool to predict both VTE recurrence and major bleeding compared with clinical judgement in people with unprovoked proximal DVT or PE? [2020] For a short explanation of why the committee made the recommendation for research, see the rationale section on long-term anticoagulation for secondary prevention. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review F: what factors determine the optimum duration of pharmacological treatment for DVT or PE in people with a VTE? 4 Lower-dose thrombolysis for people with acute PE and right ventricular dysfunction Does lower-dose thrombolysis reduce the risk of major bleeding and improve outcomes for people with acute PE and right ventricular dysfunction? [2015] 5 Diagnosis of DVT What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of a whole-leg ultrasound scan compared with a proximal leg vein ultrasound scan in the diagnosis of acute DVT? [2012] Other recommendations for research 6 Treatment strategy for people who use intravenous drugs What is the optimal pharmacological treatment strategy for DVT or PE in people who use intravenous drugs? [2020] For a short explanation of why the committee made the recommendation for research, see the rationale section on anticoagulation treatment for DVT or PE in people who use intravenous drugs. Full details of the
