Venous thromboembolic diseases: diagnosis, management and thrombophilia testing
KEYWORDS: people, treatment, dvt, anticoagulation, committee, anticoagulation treatment, evidence, recommendations, vte, cancer, risk, agreed, clinical, recommendation, d-dimer


of why the committee made the recommendation for research, see the rationale section on anticoagulation treatment for DVT or PE in people who use intravenous drugs. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review D: pharmacological treatment in people with suspected or confirmed DVT and/or PE. 7 Predicting VTE recurrence and major bleeding What is the prognostic accuracy of a tool to predict both VTE recurrence and major bleeding after 3 months of initial anticoagulation treatment and in the long term? [2020] For a short explanation of why the committee made the recommendation for research, see the rationale section on long-term anticoagulation for secondary prevention. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review F: what factors determine the optimum duration of pharmacological treatment for DVT or PE in people with a VTE? 8 Thrombolytic therapy for DVT What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of clot removal using catheter-directed thrombolytic therapy or pharmacomechanical thrombolysis compared with standard anticoagulation therapy for the treatment of acute proximal DVT? [2012] Rationale and impact These sections briefly explain why the committee made the recommendations and how they might affect practice. They link to details of the evidence and a full description of the committee's discussion. Diagnosis and initial management in people with COVID-19 Recommendations 1.1.1 to 1.1.22 Why the committee made the recommendations The following text covers the 2023 changes to the recommendations. The committee were aware of the increased risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) in people with COVID-19 and that diagnosis of VTE in this population can be complicated. They may present with symptoms similar to pulmonary embolism (PE), and with elevated D-dimer levels even in the absence of VTE. However, limited evidence suggested that raising the D-dimer threshold for recommending imaging in people with COVID-19 would probably increase the number of missed VTE diagnoses. The committee agreed that there are now fewer cases of COVID-19-related VTE. This is partly due to changes over time in people's responses to COVID-19 that have made it less severe. For example, much of the population has now had COVID-19 or has been vaccinated. In addition, evolution of the SARS-CoV-2 variants has led to a milder disease. Therefore, the committee decided that the current pathway for diagnosing PE or deep vein thrombosis (DVT), including the use of D-dimer testing, is still appropriate for people with COVID-19. Healthcare
