Venous thromboembolic diseases: diagnosis, management and thrombophilia testing
KEYWORDS: people, treatment, dvt, anticoagulation, committee, anticoagulation treatment, evidence, recommendations, vte, cancer, risk, agreed, clinical, recommendation, d-dimer


Therefore, the committee decided that the current pathway for diagnosing PE or deep vein thrombosis (DVT), including the use of D-dimer testing, is still appropriate for people with COVID-19. Healthcare professionals would still have a high suspicion of PE for people who rapidly deteriorate with symptoms indicative of PE. The committee noted that people with COVID-19 who need supplemental oxygen or other respiratory support will be receiving prophylactic or therapeutic doses of anticoagulation depending on the severity of illness. They agreed that it may not be appropriate to stop this management, even when the results of the imaging investigations are negative. This is because immunothrombosis occurring at the capillary level associated with COVID-19 is beyond the sensitivity of standard CT pulmonary angiogram. NICE's guideline on managing COVID-19 has advice on when to stop anticoagulation for primary prevention in this population. How the recommendations might affect practice The following text covers the 2023 changes to the recommendations. Imaging investigations are indicated in people with a low-risk Wells score but positive D-dimer test. People with COVID-19, a low-risk Wells score and elevated D-dimers are likely to have imaging based on the current diagnostic pathway. As there may be other reasons for elevated D-dimer levels in the COVID-19 population and because the evidence suggests an increase in false-positive D-dimer results, these recommendations may lead to an increase in the number of people who have imaging but turn out not to have VTE. However, the incidence rate for COVID-19-related hospital admissions is currently much lower compared with that during the early pandemic, so imaging rates may not increase substantially in practice. VTE prevention with anticoagulation for people with COVID-19 who need supplemental oxygen or other respiratory support is standard practice. Therefore, the recommendations for continuing this management following a negative imaging result is unlikely to result in a change in practice or an increase in resources. Return to recommendations D-dimer testing Recommendations 1.1.12 to 1.1.14 Why the committee made the recommendations Point-of-care D-dimer testing The committee agreed that, if both laboratory-based and point-of-care D-dimer testing are immediately available, laboratory testing is preferable because it provides more rigorous quality assurance and greater certainty of diagnostic accuracy. However, if laboratory-based testing is not immediately available, the committee were in agreement that offering immediate point-of-care testing is more beneficial for patients than delaying diagnosis by waiting for laboratory testing. Although point-of-care tests are more expensive than laboratory
