Venous thromboembolic diseases: diagnosis, management and thrombophilia testing
KEYWORDS: people, treatment, dvt, anticoagulation, committee, anticoagulation treatment, evidence, recommendations, vte, cancer, risk, agreed, clinical, recommendation, d-dimer


committee were in agreement that offering immediate point-of-care testing is more beneficial for patients than delaying diagnosis by waiting for laboratory testing. Although point-of-care tests are more expensive than laboratory tests, a cost-effectiveness analysis showed that the additional cost may be offset by faster results that reduce the need for additional GP time and unnecessary interim anticoagulation. Evidence on fully quantitative point-of-care D-dimer tests for DVT suggested that they are as accurate as laboratory tests and more accurate than qualitative or semi-quantitative tests. There is little evidence on these tests for PE but the committee agreed that the evidence on DVT is applicable to PE because it is very unlikely that there is a biological reason that the accuracy of the tests would differ between these groups. The committee were aware that quantitative tests are more commonly used than qualitative or semi- quantitative tests. However, because the latter types of tests are still used in some services, they specified that point-of-care tests should be fully quantitative. Age-adjusted D-dimer test thresholds In people aged over 50, there was limited prospective evidence available for DVT and only retrospective evidence available for PE. This evidence suggested that adjusting D-dimer test thresholds for age improves the usefulness of these tests for ruling out VTE in this age group. The evidence also suggested that age adjustment does not reduce the accuracy of the tests in identifying VTE. The committee noted that adjusting test thresholds for age could be beneficial in reducing anxiety and unnecessary imaging for people with suspected DVT or PE. Although the evidence was not plentiful, the committee agreed that, taken together with the potential benefits, it was sufficient to support a recommendation suggesting age adjustment in D-dimer test thresholds for people aged over 50. How the recommendations might affect practice Services that do not currently provide quantitative point-of-care D-dimer tests may need to acquire new equipment and provide training on how to conduct and interpret the tests. It is uncertain what impact this would have on practice, because it is unclear what proportion of primary care centres already use point-of-care testing. Facilities for point-of- care testing are only needed if rapid laboratory testing is not available. The number of D-dimer tests that are adjusted for age is likely to increase, leading to a reduction in the number of additional investigations for VTE. Return to recommendations Pulmonary embolism rule-out criteria (the PERC rule)
