Venous thromboembolic diseases: diagnosis, management and thrombophilia testing
KEYWORDS: people, treatment, dvt, anticoagulation, committee, anticoagulation treatment, evidence, recommendations, vte, cancer, risk, agreed, clinical, recommendation, d-dimer


are adjusted for age is likely to increase, leading to a reduction in the number of additional investigations for VTE. Return to recommendations Pulmonary embolism rule-out criteria (the PERC rule) Recommendation 1.1.16 Why the committee made the recommendation In people with signs or symptoms of PE, but in whom clinical suspicion of PE is low (based on the overall clinical impression and that other diagnoses are feasible), there was some evidence showing that applying the pulmonary embolism rule-out criteria (PERC rule) can safely identify people who are unlikely to benefit from any further investigations for PE. The committee agreed that using the PERC rule can reduce anxiety and avoid unnecessary D-dimer testing, imaging and interim anticoagulation treatment for people with a low probability of PE and none of the PERC criteria. However, the evidence was limited so the committee agreed to recommend that the PERC rule be considered as part of initial assessment for PE. The committee noted that the largest randomised trial evaluating the implementation of the PERC rule used a percentage to quantify low risk (less than 15% risk of PE). However, the committee agreed with the recent report by the Healthcare Safety Investigation Branch (HSIB) on diagnosing PE in emergency departments, that this judgement is difficult to quantify in practice. They therefore decided that using wording such as 'low risk' would be less confusing. The committee described that identification of low risk is based on clinical gestalt informed by general medical history, physical examination and initial investigations. For example, a healthcare professional may consider using the PERC to rule out PE from the differential diagnosis if the presenting patient was young with new onset atraumatic chest pain or shortness of breath, but who had no concerning historical or clinical features for PE and a feasible alternative diagnosis (such as lower respiratory tract infection). The committee noted that the studies evaluating PERC all took place in emergency departments. But they could see no reason why its use should be limited to this setting or why the diagnostic accuracy of PERC would differ in other settings such as outside of the hospital. They reiterated that it was the experience of diagnosing PE that was important for applying the rule as opposed to the setting. People with COVID-19 are considered to have a higher risk of VTE than the general population, and risk increases with severity of disease. The committee
