Venous thromboembolic diseases: diagnosis, management and thrombophilia testing
KEYWORDS: people, treatment, dvt, anticoagulation, committee, anticoagulation treatment, evidence, recommendations, vte, cancer, risk, agreed, clinical, recommendation, d-dimer


as opposed to the setting. People with COVID-19 are considered to have a higher risk of VTE than the general population, and risk increases with severity of disease. The committee discussed that the PERC rule may not be suitable to rule out PE in people with COVID-19 because of the increased risk of VTE in this population. However, they also acknowledged that the tool has not been validated in this population. Taken together, the committee wanted to raise awareness around the use of PERC in the COVID-19 population. How the recommendation might affect practice The PERC rule is not widely used in current practice. This recommendation is expected to increase its use in a subgroup of people in whom clinical suspicion of PE is low and for whom discharge is being considered. Increased use of PERC can be expected to reduce the need for D-dimer testing and imaging for people with none of the PERC criteria for PE, leading to some reductions in waiting times in primary care and emergency departments. It will also help to avoid unnecessary anticoagulation treatment. However, the overall impact of this recommendation is not expected to be substantial because of the limited population it affects. Return to recommendation Outpatient treatment for low-risk pulmonary embolism Recommendations 1.2.1 to 1.2.4 Why the committee made the recommendations The committee noted that outpatient treatment for people with PE who have a low risk of poor outcomes is increasingly being used in settings such as ambulatory care units. There was limited evidence comparing outpatient with inpatient treatment for PE so the committee were unable to reach firm conclusions about the overall benefits and risks of outpatient treatment. However, no evidence showed that outpatient treatment is less effective or less safe than inpatient treatment for people with low-risk PE. The committee agreed that outpatient care offers substantial benefits for people with PE and for hospital services and should be considered for those with suspected or confirmed low-risk PE. The committee emphasised the importance of clear arrangements for monitoring and follow-up to ensure that outpatients receive the same quality of care as inpatients. They noted that specialist services with expertise in thrombosis are not available at all times and agreed that it is important for people with VTE to know who they can contact if they need advice outside normal service hours. How the recommendations might affect practice Outpatient treatment for PE
