Venous thromboembolic diseases: diagnosis, management and thrombophilia testing
KEYWORDS: people, treatment, dvt, anticoagulation, committee, anticoagulation treatment, evidence, recommendations, vte, cancer, risk, agreed, clinical, recommendation, d-dimer


is important for people with VTE to know who they can contact if they need advice outside normal service hours. How the recommendations might affect practice Outpatient treatment for PE is common practice in many services with ambulatory care units. These recommendations might lead to the establishment of ambulatory care units in services that do not currently have them, and this will reduce hospital stays in those services. Return to recommendations Anticoagulation treatment for suspected or confirmed deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism Recommendations 1.3.1 to 1.3.21 Why the committee made the recommendations Interim therapeutic anticoagulation for suspected DVT or PE There was no evidence specifically on interim anticoagulation treatment for suspected DVT or PE. However, the committee agreed that it is vital to start treatment if DVT or PE is suspected and diagnostic test results are delayed by more than 4 hours. They reasoned that anticoagulation treatments that are effective for confirmed DVT or PE are likely to be equally effective when used as interim treatment while awaiting a confirmed diagnosis. They also noted that continuing the same anticoagulant treatment after diagnosis offers benefits in terms of safety and convenience. However, they acknowledged that local protocols or availability of anticoagulants for suspected VTE may necessitate the use of different anticoagulants before and after diagnosis. The committee agreed that when choosing an interim anticoagulant, clinicians should always take individual clinical circumstances into account, including whether the person is at an extreme of body weight, has PE with haemodynamic instability, renal impairment, active cancer or established triple positive antiphospholipid syndrome. Anticoagulation treatment for confirmed DVT or PE Evidence suggested that treatment with a direct-acting oral anticoagulant (DOAC) is less likely to result in bleeding complications than treatment with low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) and a vitamin K antagonist (VKA). Additionally, people taking a DOAC benefit by being able to have an oral treatment and avoid the frequent monitoring that is necessary with other types of anticoagulation treatment. Within the DOACs, there was evidence showing that apixaban is the most cost-effective option. because it results in the fewest bleeds. Rivaroxaban is the second most cost- effective option and only slightly less cost effective than apixaban. However, the committee had reservations about this evidence because the inclusion criteria setting out which patients took part in the studies were not the same in each study. In particular, the apixaban study did not include patients
