Venous thromboembolic diseases: diagnosis, management and thrombophilia testing
KEYWORDS: people, treatment, dvt, anticoagulation, committee, anticoagulation treatment, evidence, recommendations, vte, cancer, risk, agreed, clinical, recommendation, d-dimer


evidence because the inclusion criteria setting out which patients took part in the studies were not the same in each study. In particular, the apixaban study did not include patients with provoked VTE unless it was caused by a persistent risk factor, so a larger proportion of patients in the apixaban study had unprovoked VTE compared with the rivaroxaban studies. This made it difficult to compare the results of the studies. Because of this, the committee were not confident that apixaban should be the only option for a DOAC and recommended a choice of apixaban or rivaroxaban. Sensitivity analyses were carried out varying the drug prices but these analyses did not change any of the conclusions from the economic model. The committee recognised that apixaban or rivaroxaban might not be suitable for everyone, so they included options for treatment with LMWH followed by dabigatran or edoxaban, or LMWH with a VKA. The committee also made a recommendation for research on DOACs compared with each other and with other anticoagulants. The evidence did not support a recommendation for fondaparinux. It showed that fondaparinux is more likely to result in bleeding and is less cost effective than other treatments. However, the committee decided not to make a recommendation precluding its use because they were aware that it may be needed in rare circumstances. Unfractionated heparin (UFH) was associated with increased bleeding complications, greater recurrence rates of VTE and higher mortality rates than other treatments so the committee did not think it should be offered routinely. They recognised that it may be a suitable option for some people with VTE. Anticoagulation treatment for DVT or PE in people at extremes of body weight (less than 50 kg or more than 120 kg) Body weight can influence the absorption, distribution and elimination of anticoagulants, and their therapeutic effect can be altered at extremes of body weight. Because of this, and based on their knowledge and experience, the committee agreed that body weight should be taken into account and therapeutic monitoring considered when choosing anticoagulation for people whose weight is outside the range of 50 kg to 120 kg. There was little evidence on the comparative effectiveness of different anticoagulants for people at extremes of body weight, and the evidence was limited to obesity defined as a body mass index of 30 kg/m2 and above rather than body weight. However, the committee noted that the
