Venous thromboembolic diseases: diagnosis, management and thrombophilia testing
KEYWORDS: people, treatment, dvt, anticoagulation, committee, anticoagulation treatment, evidence, recommendations, vte, cancer, risk, agreed, clinical, recommendation, d-dimer


body weight, and the evidence was limited to obesity defined as a body mass index of 30 kg/m2 and above rather than body weight. However, the committee noted that the summaries of product characteristics (SPCs) for several anticoagulants specify body weight rather than obesity and agreed that using the same criterion as the SPCs would make the recommendations clearer and easier to implement. Because of the uncertainty about the most effective anticoagulant treatment for this group, the committee included a subgroup based on body weight in their recommendation for research on DOACs compared with each other and with other anticoagulants. Anticoagulation treatment for PE with haemodynamic instability The committee agreed that intravenous UFH should be offered to people with PE and haemodynamic instability because the anticoagulant effect needs to be carefully controlled for these people. People with haemodynamic instability have poor peripheral circulation and because UFH is administered intravenously it allows for a more certain therapeutic effect. Additionally, the anticoagulant effect of UFH wears off relatively quickly if treatment needs to be stopped. The committee did not review the evidence on thrombolytic therapy and the 2012 recommendation that it be considered for this population is unchanged. Anticoagulation treatment for DVT or PE with renal impairment or established renal failure Renal impairment increases the risk of anticoagulants accumulating in the body, which can increase bleeding risk. There was very limited evidence on anticoagulant treatment for VTE in people with renal impairment. Based on their expertise and the SPC for each treatment, the committee agreed that LMWH, UFH or DOACs are suitable options to treat VTE in people with renal impairment. However, dabigatran is not an option for people with more severe renal impairment (estimated creatinine clearance 15 ml/min to 29 ml/min) based on its SPC. For people with estimated creatinine clearance less than 15 ml/min the main options are UFH or LMWH given either on their own or with a VKA until oral anticoagulation is established and in the therapeutic range. The committee emphasised the importance of following the SPCs and locally agreed protocols, and seeking advice from specialist colleagues or a multidisciplinary team to ensure correct dosing and monitoring. Anticoagulation treatment for DVT or PE with active cancer There was very little evidence available on the duration of anticoagulation treatment for people with DVT or PE and active cancer. The committee agreed, based on the evidence and their experience, that
