Venous thromboembolic diseases: diagnosis, management and thrombophilia testing
KEYWORDS: people, treatment, dvt, anticoagulation, committee, anticoagulation treatment, evidence, recommendations, vte, cancer, risk, agreed, clinical, recommendation, d-dimer


very little evidence available on the duration of anticoagulation treatment for people with DVT or PE and active cancer. The committee agreed, based on the evidence and their experience, that anticoagulation treatment should continue for 3 to 6 months and then be reviewed. They noted that most of the evidence on VTE in people with active cancer looked at treatment over a period of 6 months, but agreed that some people need shorter treatment durations and it is good practice to determine the length of treatment on a case-by-case basis. The effectiveness of DOACs compared with other anticoagulation treatments in people with active cancer has not been studied sufficiently to enable firm conclusions to be made. Evidence from studies in people without cancer may not be applicable because cancer could affect the action of these drugs. In studies that recruited only people with active cancer and VTE, rivaroxaban, edoxaban and LMWH were found to be similarly effective, although bleeding complications were more frequent with DOACs. These studies did not look at apixaban or dabigatran. In studies that looked at apixaban and dabigatran and in which a small number of people within the study population had active cancer, the effects of apixaban and dabigatran were similar in people with and without cancer. Economic evidence based on these studies showed apixaban to be the most cost- effective option, although the evidence for apixaban was based on a relatively small number of people. The committee agreed that, if suitable, a DOAC should be considered to treat VTE in people with active cancer but, because of the limitations of the evidence, they could not be more specific about the choice of DOAC. The committee noted the potential for interactions between anticoagulants and other drugs people with active cancer may be taking, such as chemotherapy drugs, and the possibility of an increased risk of bleeding with some types of tumours. The evidence suggested a higher rate of gastrointestinal and genitourinary bleeds in people with active cancer having treatment with a DOAC compared with those having LMWH. The committee agreed that DOACs may be unsuitable for people with tumours that are associated with an increased risk of these types of bleeds (such as people with gastrointestinal malignancies). However, they agreed that treatment decisions for people with active cancer need to be made on a case-by-case basis. The committee made provision for people with active cancer if
