Venous thromboembolic diseases: diagnosis, management and thrombophilia testing
KEYWORDS: people, treatment, dvt, anticoagulation, committee, anticoagulation treatment, evidence, recommendations, vte, cancer, risk, agreed, clinical, recommendation, d-dimer


malignancies). However, they agreed that treatment decisions for people with active cancer need to be made on a case-by-case basis. The committee made provision for people with active cancer if a DOAC is not suitable by including LMWH alone and LMWH with a VKA as alternatives. Although LMWH alone is commonly used in practice and is the only licensed option to treat VTE in active cancer, it is not cost effective compared with DOACs and reducing its use would be beneficial in conserving NHS resources. Sensitivity analyses were carried out varying the drug prices but these analyses did not change any of the conclusions from the economic model. The committee recognised that there are circumstances in which LMWH is the most suitable treatment option and agreed that it could be considered when this is the case. They were aware that LMWH with a VKA is often impractical for people with active cancer because of difficulties with international normalised ratio (INR) monitoring and maintaining INR within the therapeutic range. They agreed that it is less clinically effective than LMWH alone but is less costly and remains a suitable option in some circumstances. Anticoagulation treatment for people with DVT or PE and triple positive antiphospholipid syndrome The committee were aware of an MHRA safety alert warning of an increase in VTE recurrence in people with diagnosed triple positive antiphospholipid syndrome taking a DOAC compared with those taking LMWH and a VKA. Although people with antiphospholipid syndrome were not included in the evidence review, the committee agreed that it is important to include a recommendation highlighting the need to offer LMWH with a VKA to this group. Anticoagulation treatment for DVT or PE in people who use intravenous drugs VTE can be difficult to treat in people who use intravenous drugs. They often have problems with access to medical care and adherence to prescribed treatments. There is a lack of good evidence on the comparative clinical and cost effectiveness of treatments and doses for VTE in this population. The committee made a recommendation for research with the aim of improving VTE treatment in people who use intravenous drugs. Treatment failure The committee acknowledged that VTE can recur despite anticoagulant treatment and used their knowledge and experience to outline steps that can be taken if treatment fails. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendations are expected to lead to increased use of DOACs,
