Venous thromboembolic diseases: diagnosis, management and thrombophilia testing
KEYWORDS: people, treatment, dvt, anticoagulation, committee, anticoagulation treatment, evidence, recommendations, vte, cancer, risk, agreed, clinical, recommendation, d-dimer


knowledge and experience to outline steps that can be taken if treatment fails. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendations are expected to lead to increased use of DOACs, particularly apixaban and rivaroxaban, to treat suspected and confirmed VTE. This should reduce the need for resources to monitor INR, manage bleeding complications and administer parenteral anticoagulation. The recommendation to start anticoagulation treatment before blood test results are available may increase community prescribing of anticoagulation treatment. However, more use of DOACs may also increase the need for expensive reversal agents. Current VTE management for people at extremes of body weight is not expected to change substantially. For people with haemodynamically unstable PE, UFH is currently used in clinical practice and the recommendation is not expected to affect the frequency of its use in this group. More people with renal impairment are likely to be offered a DOAC or LMWH, reducing the use of UFH. This can be expected to produce cost savings by increasing the number of people with renal impairment who can have outpatient care for VTE. For people with active cancer, it is expected that there will be an increase in the use of DOACs and a concomitant decrease in the use of more expensive treatments such as LMWH alone. This will also reduce the amount of district nursing support needed to provide assistance with parenteral therapies. For people with VTE and antiphospholipid syndrome, the use of DOACs is expected to decrease. Return to recommendations Long-term anticoagulation for secondary prevention Recommendations 1.4.1 to 1.4.12 Why the committee made the recommendations The committee agreed that the benefits of anticoagulation treatment become less certain over time, and that after 3 months (or 3 to 6 months in people with active cancer) treatment needs to be reviewed and a decision made about whether to continue or stop treatment. They agreed that, at this point, the aim of anticoagulation changes from treatment to reducing the risk of recurrence. Predicting VTE recurrence and assessing bleeding risk after provoked or unprovoked DVT or PE The committee noted that continuing anticoagulation treatment after 3 months is less beneficial for people who have had a provoked DVT or PE if the provoking factor is no longer present, because of the lower rate of recurrence compared with unprovoked DVT or PE. For people with unprovoked DVT or PE, the benefits and risks of continuing anticoagulation treatment are
