Venous thromboembolic diseases: diagnosis, management and thrombophilia testing
KEYWORDS: people, treatment, dvt, anticoagulation, committee, anticoagulation treatment, evidence, recommendations, vte, cancer, risk, agreed, clinical, recommendation, d-dimer


present, because of the lower rate of recurrence compared with unprovoked DVT or PE. For people with unprovoked DVT or PE, the benefits and risks of continuing anticoagulation treatment are less certain and the committee agreed that they need to be carefully balanced. However, for most people with a low bleeding risk, the committee agreed that the benefits of continuing anticoagulation treatment outweigh the risks. The committee agreed that the tools currently available to predict the risk of recurrence of VTE or the risk of bleeding are not sufficiently accurate or validated to be used as the sole basis for a decision, and that using them in such a manner might result in incorrect predictions and subsequent harm to the person. However, they also agreed that, in certain circumstances, a clinical prediction tool can be a useful adjunct to discussion with people offered long-term anticoagulation treatment. For bleeding risk, evidence on the HAS-BLED score showed that it can identify people with unprovoked proximal DVT or PE who are at particularly high risk of major bleeding and might benefit from stopping anticoagulation. For VTE recurrence, there was very limited evidence, and that evidence suggested that these tools are not sufficiently accurate to be used in practice. Because of the uncertainty in predicting VTE recurrence and the risk of major bleeding, the committee made recommendations for research to develop a new prediction tool for VTE recurrence and major bleeding combined and research to compare this tool with clinical judgement. Continuing or changing current treatment The committee agreed that there are risks involved in switching anticoagulant treatment, particularly if there have been no adverse events with the current treatment. They also expressed concerns about convenience for people who are asked to switch from a DOAC with no monitoring to a VKA regimen with frequent monitoring, or problems with adherence if switching from a VKA to a DOAC. Based on these concerns and their clinical experience, the committee agreed that if treatment is continued beyond 3 months, the first option for most people should be to continue the current treatment if it is well tolerated. Some evidence indicated that there are fewer major bleeds with apixaban than with rivaroxaban, dabigatran or a VKA. However, the committee were not entirely convinced by this evidence because the study of apixaban had stricter inclusion criteria, setting out which patients took part, than the other studies. Additionally, the
