Venous thromboembolic diseases: diagnosis, management and thrombophilia testing
KEYWORDS: people, treatment, dvt, anticoagulation, committee, anticoagulation treatment, evidence, recommendations, vte, cancer, risk, agreed, clinical, recommendation, d-dimer


the committee were not entirely convinced by this evidence because the study of apixaban had stricter inclusion criteria, setting out which patients took part, than the other studies. Additionally, the studies recorded a very low number of major bleeds, leading to uncertainty about the effects of the different anticoagulation treatments on the likelihood of major bleeding. Apixaban was shown by the economic evidence to be the most cost-effective long-term treatment so the committee agreed that switching to apixaban should be considered as an option for people currently taking a DOAC other than apixaban. Sensitivity analyses were carried out varying the drug prices but these analyses did not change any of the conclusions from the economic model. There was a lack of evidence on longer-term treatment for people with renal impairment, active cancer, antiphospholipid syndrome or extremes of body weight. Based on their clinical experience, the committee agreed that continuing the current treatment, if it is well tolerated, should be considered for people in these groups, taking into account their preferences and clinical situation. For people who do not continue anticoagulation treatment, evidence showed that aspirin is better than no treatment at reducing DVT or PE recurrence for up to 2 years, although there was no difference in DVT or PE recurrence between aspirin and no treatment at 4 years. On balance, the committee agreed that aspirin can be considered as an option for people who wish to stop anticoagulation treatment, using a prophylactic dose based on current UK practice (75 mg daily or 150 mg daily). To ensure that treatment is guided by the person's changing balance of benefits and risks, and changes in their preferences over time, the committee agreed that people taking long- term anticoagulation treatment or aspirin should have their risk of VTE recurrence, bleeding risk and general health reviewed at least once a year. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendations to review anticoagulation treatment at 3 months (3 to 6 months for people with active cancer), and annually thereafter, reflect most current practice but may increase the number of appointments and clinician time needed in services that do not currently provide these reviews. Giving patients who stop anticoagulation treatment information on signs and symptoms and a point of contact should ensure that a comprehensive safety net is in place. Discussions about the benefits and risks of stopping or continuing anticoagulation treatment may increase the
