Venous thromboembolic diseases: diagnosis, management and thrombophilia testing
KEYWORDS: people, treatment, dvt, anticoagulation, committee, anticoagulation treatment, evidence, recommendations, vte, cancer, risk, agreed, clinical, recommendation, d-dimer


and a point of contact should ensure that a comprehensive safety net is in place. Discussions about the benefits and risks of stopping or continuing anticoagulation treatment may increase the time needed for consultations, particularly if a prediction tool is used as part of the decision-making process. Using HAS-BLED can be expected to reduce long-term anticoagulation treatment in people with a high risk of major bleeding. The recommendations are not expected to change practice for people with renal impairment or extremes of body weight. For people with antiphospholipid syndrome, it is expected that DOAC use will decrease, with a concomitant increase in the use of LMWH with a VKA. For people with active cancer, DOAC use can be expected to increase, with LMWH on its own becoming a less common treatment. For people with none of these clinical features, greater use of DOACs, particularly apixaban, for long-term treatment can be expected to lower costs by reducing the need for clinical visits, INR monitoring and managing bleeding events. The use of aspirin may increase for people who decline long- term anticoagulation. This may reduce VTE recurrence in people who would otherwise not receive treatment. Return to recommendations Inferior vena caval filters Recommendations 1.7.1 to 1.7.4 Why the committee made the recommendations There was little good evidence on inferior vena caval (IVC) filters. The evidence in a number of populations, including people about to have surgery, people with cancer, people with a high risk of having a subsequent PE and people with a high risk of a poor outcome from a subsequent PE, did not show a benefit from IVC filters. The committee therefore agreed that the use of IVC filters should be restricted to prospective clinical studies (including but not limited to prospective cohort studies and randomised controlled trials) unless anticoagulation is contraindicated or a PE has occurred during anticoagulation treatment. They made a recommendation for research to further investigate the effectiveness of IVC filters. For people with proximal DVT or PE and a contraindication to anticoagulation treatment, a small amount of new evidence has become available since the 2012 guideline was published. This evidence did not show a clear difference in outcomes such as mortality and VTE recurrence between people who were given IVC filters and those who were not. One study found evidence of an increase in DVT occurrence (in people with an undefined initial VTE event) at 1
