Venous thromboembolic diseases: diagnosis, management and thrombophilia testing
KEYWORDS: people, treatment, dvt, anticoagulation, committee, anticoagulation treatment, evidence, recommendations, vte, cancer, risk, agreed, clinical, recommendation, d-dimer


who were given IVC filters and those who were not. One study found evidence of an increase in DVT occurrence (in people with an undefined initial VTE event) at 1 year in the group given IVC filters. However, based on their experience and knowledge of IVC filters, the committee agreed that they can help to reduce the risk of PE when therapeutic anticoagulation cannot be given. The committee also had concerns about the inherent risks involved in using IVC filters, including the invasive nature of the procedure for placing them and the potential for complications such as migration or fracture of the filter. In light of this, the committee agreed that the evidence was not sufficient to retain the 2012 recommendation to offer temporary IVC filters to people who cannot have anticoagulation treatment. However, they recognised that these people have a high risk of recurrent VTE and a limited number of alternative treatments, so agreed that a recommendation to consider an IVC filter for them is justified. They also agreed to retain the 2012 advice to remove the IVC filter when anticoagulation is no longer contraindicated, adding that anticoagulation treatment should be established before the IVC filter is removed. There was very limited evidence on the use of IVC filters for people who have a PE while taking anticoagulation treatment for an initial proximal DVT or PE. The evidence suggested a reduction in short-term mortality from all causes in people in this group who had an IVC filter fitted. Because of the limited amount of evidence, the committee agreed that IVC filters could be considered for people in this group only after problems with adherence or other causes of hypercoagulability have been excluded, and different anticoagulation treatments or treatment regimens have been explored. The committee reasoned that, in many cases, optimising anticoagulation treatment will obviate the need for an IVC filter. The committee noted that the type of IVC filter used is the same whether it is intended to be temporary or permanent. They agreed that, although the decision between a temporary and permanent IVC filter would be made on a case-by-case basis, most IVC filters are likely to be temporary. It is therefore prudent to have a plan in place for removal of the IVC filter at the time of fitting it, to ensure it is removed promptly when no longer needed. How the recommendations might affect practice It
