Venous thromboembolic diseases: diagnosis, management and thrombophilia testing
KEYWORDS: people, treatment, dvt, anticoagulation, committee, anticoagulation treatment, evidence, recommendations, vte, cancer, risk, agreed, clinical, recommendation, d-dimer


place for removal of the IVC filter at the time of fitting it, to ensure it is removed promptly when no longer needed. How the recommendations might affect practice It is expected that the overall impact of the recommendations will be to reduce the use of IVC filters. For people with VTE at acute risk of thrombosis, clinicians may fit an IVC filter as part of a clinical trial. Return to recommendations Investigations for cancer Recommendations 1.8.1 and 1.8.2 Why the committee made the recommendations Unprovoked VTE is associated with an increased risk of cancer, which may be undiagnosed when the VTE occurs. The committee agreed that a physical examination and review of medical history (including previous investigations such as imaging) are worthwhile precautions for people who have had an apparently unprovoked DVT or PE. However, the evidence did not show any benefit from further investigations for cancer for people who have no signs or symptoms. Moreover, these investigations can be costly, time consuming, potentially invasive or pose a radiation risk, and cause anxiety. The committee therefore agreed that further investigations for cancer should not be offered to people without relevant signs or symptoms. How the recommendations might affect practice A physical examination and a review of medical history is current practice for people with unprovoked DVT or PE. The recommendations can be expected to reduce costs by reducing further investigations for cancer in people without symptoms or signs. Return to recommendations Context In venous thromboembolism (VTE), a blood clot forms in a vein, usually in the deep veins of the legs or pelvis. This is known as deep vein thrombosis, or DVT. The blood clot can dislodge and travel in the blood, particularly to the pulmonary arteries. This is known as pulmonary embolism (PE). The term 'VTE' includes both DVT and PE. Failure to diagnose and treat VTE correctly can result in fatal PE, in which the blood clot blocks the blood supply to the lungs. However, diagnosis of VTE is not always straightforward. This guideline includes advice on the Wells score, D-dimer measurement, ultrasound and radiological imaging. It also offers guidance on treating VTE, investigations for cancer in people with VTE and thrombophilia testing. The guideline covers adults with suspected or confirmed DVT or PE. It does not cover children or young people aged under 18, or women who are pregnant. Since the publication of the updated guideline
