Diabetologia (2024) 67:2375–2392
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, strong, loe, consensus, adults, fibrosis, strong consensus, risk, recommendation, disease, loe strong, individuals, cirrhosis, recommendation strong


to positively SLD Steatotic liver disease influence the course of the disease, which is expected to VCTE Vibration-controlled transient elastography prevent relevant clinical events. These CPGs are targeted at healthcare providers involved in the care of individuals with (or at risk of) MASLD. They provide a framework for the early identification of affected individuals, risk stratification and therapeutic management including non-pharmacological and pharmacological treat- Introduction ment. Furthermore, they provide guidance on the manage- ment of end-stage MASLD and MASLD in the setting of Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease advanced liver disease and liver transplantation. (MASLD) has become the most common chronic liver The purpose of this document is to assist physicians, affected presence of MASLD is tightly linked to type 2 diabetes, cymakers from Europe and worldwide in the decision-making obesity and other cardiometabolic risk factors. MASLD is process, by providing evidence-based data, which also takes chronic kidney disease, hepatic and extrahepatic malignan- healthcare system. The recommendations are intended to guide hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Therefore, the high socio- and therapies are available. Thus, users should adapt the recom- lenge that needs to be addressed by medical societies and infrastructure and cost–benefit strategies. policymakers . MASLD is defined as the presence of excess triglyceride Preamble storage in the liver in the presence of at least one cardio- metabolic risk factor. The term MASLD comprises differ- ent conditions, including isolated liver steatosis (metabolic The nomenclature of SLD and definition of MASLD were dysfunction-associated steatotic liver, MASL), metabolic established in June 2023, following an international, multi- dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH), as well as society guided Delphi process . The diagnosis of MASLD fibrosis and cirrhosis. MASH is characterised by histological requires the presence of at least one cardiometabolic risk fac- features of hepatocellular ballooning and lobular inflamma- tor in an individual with documented steatosis. This has raised tion. MASLD replaces the old term non-alcoholic fatty liver concerns as to whether evidence generated under the NAFLD disease (NAFLD) and is embedded in the new consensus definition would still apply to individuals with MASLD. definition of steatotic liver disease (SLD). Besides MASLD, Several re-examinations from existing cohort studies sup- SLD also includes MASLD with moderate (increased) alco- port that NAFLD-related findings can be fully extrapolated hol intake (MetALD), alcohol-related liver disease (ALD), to individuals with MASLD. As an example, analyses of a specific aetiologies of SLD (e.g. drug-induced, monogenic large tertiary care NAFLD cohort and the
