Diabetologia (2024) 67:2375–2392
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, strong, loe, consensus, adults, fibrosis, strong consensus, risk, recommendation, disease, loe strong, individuals, cirrhosis, recommendation strong


intake (MetALD), alcohol-related liver disease (ALD), to individuals with MASLD. As an example, analyses of a specific aetiologies of SLD (e.g. drug-induced, monogenic large tertiary care NAFLD cohort and the population-based diseases) and cryptogenic SLD (Fig. 1) . Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANESIII) data found a Diabetologia (2024) 67:2375–2392 2377 Steatotic liver disease Hepatic steatosis identified by imaging or biopsy Presence of any of the cardiometabolic criteria? YES NO Metabolic dysfunction- Presence (history) of associated NO alcohol consumption >20 g/day in women NO steatotic liver disease and >30 g/day in men? (MASLD) YES Alcohol intake Other causes of >50 g/day in women and YES steatosis? >60 g/day in men? if inflammation and YES NO ballooning on histology NO YES Metabolic dysfunction- MetALD Alcohol-related liver • Drug-induced liver Cryptogenic SLD associated (20–50 g/day in women disease (ALD) disease (DILI) steatohepatitis and (>50 g/day in women • Monogenic diseases (MASH) 30–60 g/day in men) and >60 g/day in men) • Miscellaneous Fig. 1 Flow chart for SLD and its sub-categories . SLD, diagnosed The quantity of alcohol intake, the drinking pattern, and the type of histologically or by imaging, has many potential aetiologies. MASLD alcohol consumed should be assessed in all individuals with SLD is defined as the presence of hepatic steatosis in conjunction with (at using detailed medical history, psychometric instruments and/or vali- least) one cardiometabolic risk factor and no other discernible cause. dated biomarkers nearly complete overlap between NAFLD and MASLD popu- The draft statements and recommendations of the CPG lations, with 99.8% accordance in the NAFLD cohort, while panel were sent to an international 46-member Delphi panel, only 5.3% of individuals with NAFLD in the NHANESIII including clinicians, patient representatives and other stake- database did not fulfil the MASLD criteria . In addition, holders competent in the field of MASLD, for consensus tests showed equal accuracy and cut-offs for both definitions consensus and 75–95% were classified as consensus. Neutral . Finally, long-term follow-up showed similar mortality votes were not counted when calculating the consensus. rates, with slightly higher mortality in MASLD compared to NAFLD . Therefore, we have transferred the evidence on NAFLD to the MASLD population and use the term MASLD Definition, prevalence and natural course interchangeably. Notably, MetALD represents a distinct entity to which our recommendations and statements generated with Is the presence of steatotic liver in the general population an the ‘pure’ NAFLD definition may not apply.
