Diabetologia (2024) 67:2375–2392
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, strong, loe, consensus, adults, fibrosis, strong consensus, risk, recommendation, disease, loe strong, individuals, cirrhosis, recommendation strong


represents a distinct entity to which our recommendations and statements generated with Is the presence of steatotic liver in the general population an the ‘pure’ NAFLD definition may not apply. important factor in identifying individuals at risk for liver- related outcomes, independent of the presence of other hepa- totoxic factors? Methods Recommendations The levels of evidence (LoE) for all statements and recom- mendations were developed by applying the Oxford Centre for • The incidental finding of steatosis should prompt assess- Evidence-based Medicine system (electronic supplementary ment of the potential aetiology of SLD, alongside tests material [ESM] Table 1) . The strength of recommenda- for the presence of advanced fibrosis, as this could deter- tions reflects the quality (grade) of underlying evidence (ESM mine the risk of liver-related and/or cardiovascular out- Table 2). In cases where the committee determined guidance comes and appropriate care (LoE 3, strong recommen- to be necessary despite a lack of available supporting literature, dation, strong consensus). a recommendation was developed based on expert opinion and • MASLD, ALD and MetALD are the most common consensus. causes of SLD, but other causes such as drug-induced 2 378 Diabetologia (2024) 67:2375–2392 liver disease and monogenic SLD should be considered, emerging evidence does not support a protective effect depending on the context (LoE 3, strong recommenda- of light to moderate amounts of alcohol, particularly in tion, strong consensus). individuals with cardiometabolic risk factors (LoE 3, • General population-based screening for SLD is not strong consensus). advised (LoE 3, strong recommendation, strong con- sensus). Recommendations Statement • The amount, pattern and history of alcohol intake should be documented in all individuals with SLD (LoE 3, • While the presence of steatotic liver in the general popu- strong recommendation, strong consensus). lation is not independently associated with liver-related • Alcohol intake may be qualitatively and quantitatively outcomes, the stage of liver fibrosis and persistently assessed by validated instruments and/or specific bio- elevated liver enzymes are associated with liver-related markers in individuals with SLD (ESM Table 5) (LoE outcomes (LoE 3, strong consensus). 3, open recommendation, strong consensus). • Individuals with SLD, particularly those with moder- A proposal for the simplified diagnostic work-up of ate or high alcohol intake, should be discouraged from a case of SLD is outlined in Fig. 1. Cardiometabolic risk consuming alcohol (LoE 3, strong recommendation, factors and their cut-offs for the definition of MASLD are consensus). summarised
