Diabetologia (2024) 67:2375–2392
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, strong, loe, consensus, adults, fibrosis, strong consensus, risk, recommendation, disease, loe strong, individuals, cirrhosis, recommendation strong


from a case of SLD is outlined in Fig. 1. Cardiometabolic risk consuming alcohol (LoE 3, strong recommendation, factors and their cut-offs for the definition of MASLD are consensus). summarised in ESM Table 3. Other causes of SLD (ESM • All alcohol consumption should be stopped completely Table 4) should be considered when all other factors have and permanently in individuals with advanced fibrosis been excluded (Fig. 1). or cirrhosis (LoE 3, strong recommendation, strong consensus). Which risk factors and comorbidities have the greatest impact on the natural history of the hepatic disease includ- Prevention ing HCC in MASLD? In the general population or high-risk groups, can non-pharma- Statements cological measures be recommended to prevent the development of MASLD and its adverse complications, including HCC? • Type 2 diabetes and obesity (particularly abdominal obe- sity) are the metabolic diseases with the strongest impact Recommendation on the natural history of MASLD, including progression to MASLD/MASH-related advanced fibrosis, cirrhosis • In the general population, non-pharmacological measures and hepatocellular carcinoma (LoE 2, strong consen- should be recommended to prevent the development of sus). MASLD and its complications, including hepatocellular • Men aged >50 years, postmenopausal women and indi- carcinoma, and preventive measures should be reinforced viduals with multiple cardiometabolic risk factors are at in high-risk groups (LoE 3, strong recommendation, increased risk of progressive fibrosis and the develop- strong consensus). ment of cirrhosis and its complications (LoE 2, strong consensus). Screening, case‑finding, diagnosis Does any alcohol consumption in adults with non-cirrhotic and monitoring or cirrhotic MASLD have an adverse effect on the natural course of liver disease? Should a policy of screening for MASLD at risk of fibrotic disease (or fibrosis progression) in primary care or at Statements the non-hepatology specialist level be implemented in the general population or only in individuals with cardio- • Accumulating evidence shows that alcohol consumption metabolic risk factors? and metabolic risk factors have modifying effects on the Which at-risk individuals should undergo case-finding onset and progression of chronic liver disease, which are for MASLD at risk of fibrotic disease (or fibrosis progres- independent and can be synergistic (LoE 2, strong con- sion) in the primary care (or other specialty) setting to sensus). reduce hepatic complications of MASLD? • The presumed beneficial health effects of moderate alco- hol consumption are inconsistent across studies, and Diabetologia (2024) 67:2375–2392 2379 Recommendations • Clinical care pathways may be adopted based on
