Diabetologia (2024) 67:2375–2392
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, strong, loe, consensus, adults, fibrosis, strong consensus, risk, recommendation, disease, loe strong, individuals, cirrhosis, recommendation strong


with imaging techniques measuring mechanical liver biopsy is still required for the definite diagnosis properties and/or hepatic fat content should be used for of steatohepatitis and can help to rule out alternative the detection of fibrosis since their diagnostic accuracy causes of liver disease (LoE 1, strong consensus). is higher than standard liver enzyme testing (alanine aminotransferase [ALT] and aspartate aminotransferase Non-invasively obtained blood-based biomarkers [AST]) (LoE 2, strong recommendation, strong con- (such as FIB-4 and ELF) and measurements of liver sensus). stiffness (vibration-controlled transient elastography • In adults with MASLD, a multi-step approach is recom- [VCTE] or magnetic resonance elastography [MRE]) mended (detailed in Fig. 2): first, an established non- are suitable for reliably detecting advanced fibrosis with patented blood-based score, such as the fibrosis-4 index positive and negative predictive values strongly depend- (FIB-4), should be used. Thereafter, established imaging ent on the chosen cut-off values and the prevalence of techniques, such as liver elastography, are recommended fibrosis of different stages in the studied population as a second step to further clarify the fibrosis stage if (Table 1). fibrosis is still suspected or in high-risk groups (LoE 2, strong recommendation, strong consensus). In adults with MASLD, should non-invasive scores, circu- • Tests of specific collagen-related blood constituents lating biomarkers, liver stiffness measurement and imag- (e.g. enhanced liver fibrosis [ELF]) may serve as an ing techniques be used as a surrogate for liver biopsy to alternative to imaging to identify advanced liver fibro- monitor progression of MASH and predict liver-related sis (LoE 2, open recommendation, consensus). outcomes? 2 380 Diabetologia (2024) 67:2375–2392 Type 2 diabetes or obesity + ≥1 cardiometabolic risk factor(s) or persistently elevated liver enzymes FIB-4* A <1.3 1.3 2.67 >2.67 B VCTE or alternative test*** <8.0 kPa ≥8.0 kPa Intensified management Hepatology referral of comorbidities** re-assess FIB-4 • Diagnostic work-up and management plan for at ≤1 year liver-related outcomes • Intensified management of comorbidities (ina Re-assess FIB-4 FIB-4 FIB-4 multidisciplinary team) every 1 3 years <1.3 ≥1.3 * FIB-4 thresholds valid for age ≤65 years (for age >65 years: lower FIB-4 cut-off is 2.0) ** e.g. lifestyle intervention, treatment of comorbidities (e.g. GLP1RA), bariatric procedures *** e.g. MRE, SWE, ELF, with adapted thresholds Fig. 2 Proposed strategy for non-invasive assessment of the risk for individuals with MASLD and advanced fibrosis. The algorithm can advanced fibrosis and liver-related outcomes in individuals with met- also be applied in case
