Diabetologia (2024) 67:2375–2392
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, strong, loe, consensus, adults, fibrosis, strong consensus, risk, recommendation, disease, loe strong, individuals, cirrhosis, recommendation strong


for non-invasive assessment of the risk for individuals with MASLD and advanced fibrosis. The algorithm can advanced fibrosis and liver-related outcomes in individuals with met- also be applied in case of incident finding of steatosis. This strategy abolic risk factors or signs of SLD. Individuals with (1) type 2 diabe- is intended to identify individuals at risk of developing liver-related tes or (2) abdominal obesity and ≥1 additional cardiometabolic risk outcomes. MRE, magnetic resonance elastography; SWE, shear wave factor(s) or (3) persistently elevated liver enzymes should undergo a elastography multi-step diagnostic process, as indicated in the figure, to identify Recommendations Recommendations • In adults with MASLD, sequential assessment with non- • Clinicians in specialised centres may consider assessing invasive tools may assist in ruling out fibrosis progres- the genetic risk profile (e.g. PNPLA3 p.I148M variant sion (LoE 3, weak recommendation, strong consen- and/or polygenic risk scores) to personalise risk strati- sus). fication, but this concept should be evaluated in larger • In adults with MASLD, non-invasive tools (Table 1) can prospective studies (LoE 3, open recommendation, help predict the risk of overall and liver-related events consensus). consensus). for stratification of disease risk progression and sub-phe- notyping of MASLD (LoE 3, open recommendation, Evidence for the ability of non-invasive tests to predict strong consensus). outcomes in MASLD as well as suggested thresholds for • Clinicians can consider referring individuals with a diagnostic purposes are summarised in Table 1. strong family history of severe disease in first degree relatives or early presentation with a severe phenotype, In adults with MASLD, does genetic testing (alone or especially in the absence of metabolic triggers (and/or in combination) provide an additional advantage over e.g. in individuals with normal body weight), for the other non-invasive scores and imaging in predicting risk evaluation of coexisting, treatable, genetic causes of liver of liver disease development, severity, progression and disease by next-generation sequencing approaches (LoE liver-related outcomes, or response to specific therapeu- 4, open recommendation, consensus). tic approaches? Diabetologia (2024) 67:2375–2392 2381 Table 1 Targets of different non-invasive techniques (selection) and suggested thresholds for ruling out/in certain features of MASLD Non-invasive test Biological processes reflected Rule-out Rule-in Predictionof cut-off cut-off liver-related outcomes Primary target: hepatic steatosis USscan—standard Lipid content N/A N/A + VCTE: CAP Lipid content S1: 248 dB/m ? S2: 268 dB/m S3: 280 dB/m MRI—MRI-PDFF Lipid content S1: 5% + S2: 11–18% S3: 16–23% Primary target: hepatic
