Diabetologia (2024) 67:2375–2392
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, strong, loe, consensus, adults, fibrosis, strong consensus, risk, recommendation, disease, loe strong, individuals, cirrhosis, recommendation strong


At initial diagnosis of MASLD and at regular follow- performed for associated comorbidities (e.g. cardiovascular up intervals, laboratory tests and physical examina- diseases, diabetes, dyslipidaemia or obesity)? tions for related comorbidities are recommended (Table 2) (LoE 2, strong recommendation, strong Recommendations consensus). • Adults with MASLD should be encouraged to participate • Clinicians should assess associated comorbidities (e.g. in extrahepatic cancer screening according to current type 2 diabetes, dyslipidaemia, hypertension, kidney dis- guidelines, based on their exposure to obesity and type 2 382 Diabetologia (2024) 67:2375–2392 2 diabetes as risk factors for extrahepatic malignancies dysplastic or regenerative nodules (LoE 3, open recom- (LoE 3, strong recommendation, strong consensus). mendation, strong consensus). • Assessment of insulin resistance (e.g. using the homeosta- sis model assessment of insulin resistance [HOMA-IR] or Algorithms combining demographic and clinical varia- estimates derived from the oral glucose tolerance test) may bles with blood-based biomarkers to assess the risk of HCC be considered to clarify metabolic dysfunction in adults development are summarised in ESM Table 7. However, with (suspected) MASLD and without an established diag- none of these calculators have been validated in Phase III/ nosis of type 2 diabetes (LoE 3, weak recommendation, IV studies. consensus). In adults with non-cirrhotic MASLD or MASH, is surveil- Treatment of MASLD: general considerations lance indicated for early detection of HCC? In adults with MASLD, which of the following—reduction Recommendations of steatosis, resolution of MASH, improvement of fibrosis, stabilisation of fibrosis, prevention of progression to cir- • In adults with non-cirrhotic MASLD or MASH in the rhosis—is the most relevant therapeutic target for improving absence of severe fibrosis (i.e. those with fibrosis stage liver-related outcomes? <F3) assessed by non-invasive markers or liver biopsy, surveillance for early detection of hepatocellular carci- Statements noma is currently not recommended (LoE 3, weak rec- ommendation, consensus). • In adults with MASLD and advanced fibrosis or cir- • In adults with non-cirrhotic MASLD or MASH in the rhosis, regression of fibrosis has been associated with presence of severe fibrosis (F3) assessed by non-invasive a reduced risk of liver-related outcomes (LoE 2, strong markers or liver biopsy, surveillance may be considered consensus). based on an individual risk assessment (LoE 4, weak • Improvement in disease activity and resolution of steato- recommendation, strong consensus). hepatitis have been associated with regression of fibrosis (LoE 2, strong consensus). Should HCC monitoring programmes be implemented in • Reduction of steatosis has
