Diabetologia (2024) 67:2375–2392
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, strong, loe, consensus, adults, fibrosis, strong consensus, risk, recommendation, disease, loe strong, individuals, cirrhosis, recommendation strong


loss drugs Consider bariatric procedures Long-term goals: Fig. 3 Lifestyle management algorithm for MASLD. Behavioural Overweight: BMI of 25–29.9 kg/m2 (non-Asian) or 23–24.9 (Asian), therapy includes: self-monitoring, clinicians providing affected indi- Obesity: ≥30 kg/m2 (non-Asian) ≥25 kg/m2 (Asian). Class II obesity: viduals with self-efficacy and motivation, setting realistic negotiable BMI ≥35 kg/m2 (non-Asian) or BMI ≥30 kg/m2 (Asian). Normal goals and overcoming barriers. Examples of unprocessed/minimally weight: BMI<25 kg/m2 (non-Asian) or <23 kg/m2 (Asian). T2D, type processed foods: vegetables, fruits (not juice), low-fat dairy, nuts, 2 diabetes olive oil, legumes, unprocessed fish and poultry. Overweight/obesity: 2 386 Diabetologia (2024) 67:2375–2392 Treatment of MASLD: pharmacological therapy not currently be recommended as MASH-targeted therapies (LoE 5, strong recommendation, strong consensus). In adults with MASH, is there sufficient evidence to recom- • GLP1RAs are safe to use in MASH (including compen- mend prescription of existing non-glucose-lowering drugs to sated cirrhosis) and should be used for their respective reduce histologically/non-invasively assessed liver damage/ indications, namely type 2 diabetes and obesity, as their fibrosis and liver-related outcomes compared to no pharma- use improves cardiometabolic outcomes (LoE 2, strong cological intervention? recommendation, strong consensus). • Where available, pioglitazone is safe to use in adults with Recommendations non-cirrhotic MASH but given the lack of robust dem- onstration of histological efficacy on steatohepatitis and • If approved locally and dependent on the label, adults with liver fibrosis in large Phase III trials, pioglitazone cannot non-cirrhotic MASH with significant liver fibrosis (stage be recommended as a MASH-targeted therapy (LoE 2, ≥2) should be considered for treatment with resmetirom as a weak recommendation, consensus). MASH-targeted therapy, as this treatment demonstrated histo- • There is insufficient evidence to recommend the use of logical efficacy on steatohepatitis and fibrosis in a large Phase sodium–glucose cotransporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitors or met- III registrational trial with an acceptable safety and tolerability formin as MASH-targeted therapies; however, they are safe to profile (LoE 2, strong recommendation, consensus). use in MASLD and should be used for their respective indica- • Treatment with resmetirom, if approved locally, may be con- tions, namely type 2 diabetes, heart failure and chronic kidney sidered for individuals with MASLD who are non-cirrhotic disease (LoE 3, strong recommendation, strong consensus). and with documentation of either: (1) advanced fibrosis; (2) at-risk steatohepatitis with significant fibrosis (by liver Statements biopsy, when available, or by non-invasive panels validated for that purpose); or (3) risk of adverse
