Diabetologia (2024) 67:2375–2392
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, strong, loe, consensus, adults, fibrosis, strong consensus, risk, recommendation, disease, loe strong, individuals, cirrhosis, recommendation strong


of either: (1) advanced fibrosis; (2) at-risk steatohepatitis with significant fibrosis (by liver Statements biopsy, when available, or by non-invasive panels validated for that purpose); or (3) risk of adverse liver-related out- • In case of substantial weight loss induced by GLP1RAs, comes (e.g. by elastography- or biomarker-defined thresh- a hepatic histological benefit could be expected, although olds) (LoE 3, open recommendation, consensus). this has not been extensively documented so far (LoE 2, • No MASH-targeted pharmacotherapy can currently be strong consensus). recommended for adults with MASH at the cirrhotic stage • There is insufficient evidence to support using any other (LoE 5, weak recommendation, strong consensus). glucose-lowering drug class as MASH-targeted therapies • Given the lack of robust demonstration of histological (LoE 5, strong consensus). efficacy on steatohepatitis and liver fibrosis derived from large Phase III trials and potential long-term risks, vitamin Figure 4 summarises the recommended choice of phar- E cannot be recommended as a MASH-targeted therapy macological treatment options in individuals with MASH, (LoE 2, weak recommendation, strong consensus). depending on comorbidities and stage of disease. In adults with MASH, is there sufficient evidence to recommend Statement prescription of existing weight-loss agents to reduce histologi- • For individuals with MASLD undergoing therapy with cally/non-invasively assessed liver damage/fibrosis and liver- related outcomes compared to no pharmacological intervention? resmetirom, data on sustainability of histological benefits, individual prediction of response, liver-related outcomes and long-term safety are not currently available (LoE 5, Recommendation strong consensus). • Non-incretin-based weight-loss agents are not recom- In adults with MASH, is there sufficient evidence to recommend mended as MASH-targeted therapies (LoE 5, strong prescription of existing glucose-lowering drugs to reduce histo- recommendation, strong consensus). logically/non-invasively assessed liver damage/fibrosis and liver- related outcomes compared to no pharmacological intervention? Treatment of MASLD: surgical and endoscopic therapy Recommendations • In the absence of a formal demonstration of histological In adults with MASLD and obesity, are bariatric/metabolic sur- gery procedures or endoscopic weight-loss interventions effec- improvement in large, well conducted, Phase III trials, tive to reduce histologically/non-invasively assessed liver damage glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonists (GLP1RA) can- and liver-related outcomes compared with no intervention? Diabetologia (2024) 67:2375–2392 2387 Recommendations Recommendations • In adults with non-cirrhotic MASLD who have an • In adults with MASH cirrhosis, it is recommended that approved indication, bariatric surgery should be con- dietary and lifestyle recommendations be adapted to the sidered, because it can induce
