Diabetologia (2024) 67:2375–2392
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, strong, loe, consensus, adults, fibrosis, strong consensus, risk, recommendation, disease, loe strong, individuals, cirrhosis, recommendation strong


• In adults with MASH cirrhosis, it is recommended that approved indication, bariatric surgery should be con- dietary and lifestyle recommendations be adapted to the sidered, because it can induce long-term beneficial severity of liver disease, nutritional status and the pres- effects on the liver and is associated with remission of ence of sarcopenia/sarcopenic obesity (LoE 2, strong type 2 diabetes and improvement of cardiometabolic recommendation, strong consensus). risk factors (LoE 3, strong recommendation, strong • In adults with sarcopenia, sarcopenic obesity or decom- consensus). pensated cirrhosis, it is recommended that a high-protein • In adults with MASLD-related compensated advanced diet is provided, as well as a late-evening snack (LoE 2, chronic liver disease/compensated cirrhosis who have strong recommendation, consensus). an approved indication, bariatric surgery can be con- • Moderate weight reduction can be suggested in adults sidered but careful evaluation (indication, type of sur- with compensated cirrhosis and obesity, with an empha- gery, presence of clinically significant portal hyper- sis on high protein intake and physical activity to main- tension) by a multidisciplinary team with experience tain muscle mass and reduce the risk of sarcopenia (LoE in bariatric surgery in this particular population is 3, weak recommendation, strong consensus). required (LoE 4, weak recommendation, strong con- sensus). The approach of the majority of nutritional interventions • Metabolic/bariatric endoscopic procedures require fur- in cirrhosis is to supply at least 35 kcal/kg of body weight/ ther validation as MASH-targeted therapy and cannot day, with a daily recommended protein intake of 1.2–1.5 currently be recommended (LoE 4, weak recommen- g/kg of body weight/day, and recommended strategies are dation, strong consensus). summarised in ESM Table 8. In adults with MASH-related cirrhosis, how should pharmaco- logic interventions for diabetes and lipid control or cardiovascu- End‑stage liver disease and liver lar prevention be adapted to the severity of the liver condition? transplantation Recommendations In adults with MASH-related cirrhosis, should dietary and lifestyle recommendations be adapted to the severity of • Metformin can be used in adults with compensated cirrhosis liver disease, nutritional status and sarcopenia? and preserved renal function but should not be used in adults Preferred pharmacological options for treating comorbidities MASH-targeted T2D Dyslipidaemia Obesity GLP1RA MASLD/ If locally approved: (e.g. semaglutide, MASH resmetirom liraglutide, dulaglutide) GLP1RA without cirrhosis in F2/F3 fibrosis and coagonists (e.g. semaglutide, (F0–F3) (e.g. tirzepatide) liraglutide) and coagonists SGLT2 inhibitors (e.g. tirzepatide) (e.g.empagliflozin, Statins dapagliflozin) Bariatric Metformin* interventions MASLD/ Check
