Diabetologia (2024) 67:2375–2392
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, strong, loe, consensus, adults, fibrosis, strong consensus, risk, recommendation, disease, loe strong, individuals, cirrhosis, recommendation strong


liraglutide, dulaglutide) GLP1RA without cirrhosis in F2/F3 fibrosis and coagonists (e.g. semaglutide, (F0–F3) (e.g. tirzepatide) liraglutide) and coagonists SGLT2 inhibitors (e.g. tirzepatide) (e.g.empagliflozin, Statins dapagliflozin) Bariatric Metformin* interventions MASLD/ Check indication for (special caution in MASH with liver transplantation Insulin case of compensated compensated in case of (in case of cirrhosis) cirrhosis (F4) decompensation or decompensated HCC cirrhosis) *if glomerular filtration rate >30 ml/min Fig. 4 Treatment recommendations beyond lifestyle modification in MASLD/MASH. The recommended choice of pharmacological treatment options in individuals with MASLD/MASH is dependent on comorbidities and stage of disease. T2D, type 2 diabetes 2 388 Diabetologia (2024) 67:2375–2392 with decompensated cirrhosis, especially when there is con- comorbidities in the pre- and post-transplant phase be different comitant renal impairment, because of the risk of lactic aci- from that of individuals with liver disease of other aetiologies? dosis (LoE 3, strong recommendation, strong consensus). • Sulfonylureas should be avoided in adults with hepatic Statement decompensation because of the risk of hypoglycaemia (LoE 4, weak recommendation, strong consensus). • Adults with MASLD are at increased risk of major car- • GLP-1 receptor agonists can be used in adults with diovascular events in the pre-, peri- and post-transplant Child–Pugh class A cirrhosis, according to its indication phase (LoE 2, strong consensus). (LoE 2, weak recommendation, strong consensus). • SGLT2 inhibitors can be used in adults with Child–Pugh Recommendations class A and B cirrhosis (LoE 4, weak recommendation, consensus). • Adults with MASLD who are candidates for liver trans- • Statins can be used in adults with chronic liver disease, plantation should be evaluated by a multidisciplinary including those with compensated cirrhosis; they should team for cardiovascular and metabolic comorbidities to be used in adults according to cardiovascular risk guide- mitigate the risk of major cardiovascular events in the lines to reduce cardiovascular events (LoE 1, strong rec- pre-, peri- and post-transplant phase (LoE 3, strong rec- ommendation, strong consensus). ommendation, strong consensus). • A comprehensive screening for comorbidities in adults with In adults with MASLD, can non-invasive scores, serum mark- MASLD before liver transplantation (ESM Table 9), includ- ers, liver stiffness measurements and/or imaging replace ing a stepwise and risk-adjusted cardiac work-up algorithm hepatic venous pressure gradient (HVPG) and endoscopy (Fig. 5), may help to optimise management of adults with in identifying individuals with clinically significant portal MASLD before, during and after liver transplantation (LoE hypertension and varices requiring treatment, respectively?
