Diabetologia (2024) 67:2375–2392
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, strong, loe, consensus, adults, fibrosis, strong consensus, risk, recommendation, disease, loe strong, individuals, cirrhosis, recommendation strong


5), may help to optimise management of adults with in identifying individuals with clinically significant portal MASLD before, during and after liver transplantation (LoE hypertension and varices requiring treatment, respectively? 5, weak recommendation, strong consensus). Recommendations In potential liver transplant recipients with MASH and • Liver stiffness measurement (LSM) by vibration-controlled interventions and bariatric surgery for weight loss improve transient elastography (VCTE) ≤15 kPa plus platelet count outcomes before and after transplantation? ≥150×109/l may be used to rule out clinically significant portal hypertension (CSPH) in adults with MASLD (LoE Recommendations 3, weak recommendation, strong consensus). • If CSPH is present, non-selective beta-blockers may be • Adults with obesity and end-stage MASLD listed for started unless contraindicated (LoE 3, weak recommen- liver transplantation should undergo therapeutic inter- dation, strong consensus). ventions aimed at weight reduction without worsening • In adults with compensated advanced chronic liver dis- sarcopenia as this will improve peri-operative outcomes ease but LSM ≥20 kPa and/or platelet count <150×109/l, (LoE 3, strong recommendation, strong consensus). an upper gastrointestinal endoscopy should be performed • Implementation of dietary modification and supervised to screen for varices unless they already fulfil the crite- physical exercise should be the first line management ria to initiate non-selective beta-blockers (LoE 3, strong approach with the objective of reducing BMI <40 kg/m2 recommendation, strong consensus). and ideally <35 kg/m2 (LoE 1, strong recommendation, strong consensus). Statement • In adults with end-stage MASLD listed for liver trans- plantation, pharmacological weight-loss strategies may • The threshold of LSM ≥25 kPa to rule in CSPH is only be considered after careful risk–benefit assessment (e.g. applicable to non-obese (BMI <30 kg/m2) adults with presence of sarcopenia, liver function impairment) (LoE MASLD; while obesity can confound LSM, current evi- 4, weak recommendation, consensus). dence is insufficient to suggest the optimal non-invasive • In adults with compensated cirrhosis and without clini- test to rule in CSPH in adults with MASLD and obesity cally significant portal hypertension, sleeve gastrectomy (LoE 3, strong consensus). prior to liver transplantation may be considered as an alternative option to dietary or pharmacological weight In adults with MASLD who are candidates for liver trans- loss (LoE 3, open recommendation, strong consensus). plantation, should the evaluation of (cardiometabolic) • In case of decompensated cirrhosis, bariatric surgery is contraindicated and needs to be discussed in the context Diabetologia (2024) 67:2375–2392 2389 Fig. 5 Cardiovascular work-up All LT candidates (baseline :tests)
