Diabetologia (2024) 67:2375–2392
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, strong, loe, consensus, adults, fibrosis, strong consensus, risk, recommendation, disease, loe strong, individuals, cirrhosis, recommendation strong


In case of decompensated cirrhosis, bariatric surgery is contraindicated and needs to be discussed in the context Diabetologia (2024) 67:2375–2392 2389 Fig. 5 Cardiovascular work-up All LT candidates (baseline :tests) algorithm in the evaluation of • Past medical history individuals with MASLD before • CV disease symptoms liver transplantation. Adults • Resting 12 lead ECG with MASLD who are candi- • Transthoracic echocardiography dates for liver transplantation should be evaluated by a multi- disciplinary team using a step- Suspicious findings in baseline testsor wise and risk-adjusted cardiac age >50 yearsor ≥2 CV risk factors work-up algorithm to mitigate the risk of major cardiovascular events in the pre-, peri- and Dobutamine stress echocardiography* post-transplant phase (modified (or equivalent) or from ). CCTA, coronary cardiac magnetic resonance stress computed tomography angiog- imaging*, alternative: CCTA raphy; CV, cardiovascular; DSE, dobutamine stress echocardiog- raphy; ECG, electrocardiogram; Positive findings in DSE or LT, liver transplantation; TTE, clinical suspicion transthoracic echocardiography. *Indicates suboptimal sensitiv- ity in high-risk populations Cardiology referral, CCTA or coronary angiography Multidisciplinary discussion between transplant team, cardiology and anaesthesia team to optimise management of CV disease and related comorbidities of considering liver transplantation (LoE 4, open recom- ney disease which can negatively impact long-term sur- mendation, strong consensus). vival (LoE 2, strong consensus). • No specific issues related to MASLD are known to alter Statement choice of medication or target values; the risk of recur- rence of severe, fibrotic steatohepatitis reinforces the • Weight loss and optimised treatment of comorbidities need to obtain optimal control of cardiometabolic risk before transplantation may confer a benefit in terms of factors (LoE 5, strong consensus). cardiovascular morbidity, as well as long-term survival • The benefit of controlling weight and obesity-related and reduced recurrence of severe MASLD after liver comorbidities on recurrence of MASLD post-liver trans- transplantation (LoE 3, strong consensus). plant and on progression to advanced fibrosis is expected but needs to be demonstrated in dedicated trials (LoE 5, In adults who received liver transplantation due to MASLD- strong consensus). related end-stage liver disease, can non-pharmacologic or pharmacologic measures reduce the risk of MASLD recur- Recommendations rence and improve long-term outcomes compared with no intervention? • In adults transplanted for MASLD-related end-stage liver disease, therapeutic interventions to control Statements obesity and related cardiometabolic complications are recommended (LoE 3, strong recommendation, • In adults transplanted for MASLD-related end-stage liver strong consensus). disease, there is a high risk
