Diabetologia (2024) 67:2375–2392
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, strong, loe, consensus, adults, fibrosis, strong consensus, risk, recommendation, disease, loe strong, individuals, cirrhosis, recommendation strong


to control Statements obesity and related cardiometabolic complications are recommended (LoE 3, strong recommendation, • In adults transplanted for MASLD-related end-stage liver strong consensus). disease, there is a high risk of recurrence of MASLD • After liver transplantation, standard non-pharmacolog- after liver transplantation, especially in adults with sev- ical dietary and lifestyle interventions should be uni- eral metabolic risk factors (LoE 3, strong consensus). versally implemented; pharmacological management of • Adults transplanted for MASLD-related end-stage liver hypertension, type 2 diabetes and lipid disorders should disease are also at risk of cardiovascular events and kid- be implemented according to general clinical guidelines (LoE 3, strong recommendation, strong consensus). sgnidnif elbakramernU 2 390 Diabetologia (2024) 67:2375–2392 Box 1. Key research agenda in MASLD (selected topics). General management, natural history, prevention and screening • To develop widely implementable, efficient and cost-effective point of care diagnostics for case-finding; to define referral pathways for individuals with cardiometabolic risk factors in different national healthcare contexts. • To understand individual susceptibility and determinants of fibrosis progression, course of cirrhosis and HCC occurrence in individuals with MASLD. • To better describe the natural history of the MetALD segment of the SLD population and to develop reliable and quantitative biomarkers of alcohol consumption; to examine the relationship between metabolic dysfunction and amount of alcohol consumed on the progression of liver injury. • To develop and implement national policies increasing awareness of SLD and prevention of MASLD in individuals of all ages including children and adolescents. Use of non-invasive tests (NITs) in MASLD • To qualify the most performant biomarkers for different contexts of use (diagnostic, monitoring, prognostic and treatment response) in individuals with MASLD. histological changes; and if future trials can use NITs as surrogates of treatment response. • To determine personalised, risk-based HCC surveillance strategies in both cirrhotic and non-cirrhotic MASLD and MetALD individuals. • To understand how AI-assisted diagnostics, including digital pathology, can improve risk stratification, determine treatment response and facilitate the conduct of therapeutic trials. • To evaluate the application of Baveno VII criteria of clinically significant portal hypertension and the role of spleen stiffness measurement in individuals with MASLD. Treatment for MASLD and comorbidities • To improve on personalised lifestyle and dietary approaches for weight reduction, maintenance of weight loss and the identification of individuals most likely to benefit from non-pharmacological interventions alone. • To identify early predictors of non-response to pharmacological intervention and to
