Diabetologia (2024) 67:2375–2392
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, strong, loe, consensus, adults, fibrosis, strong consensus, risk, recommendation, disease, loe strong, individuals, cirrhosis, recommendation strong


reduction, maintenance of weight loss and the identification of individuals most likely to benefit from non-pharmacological interventions alone. • To identify early predictors of non-response to pharmacological intervention and to define clear stopping rules for MASH-targeted pharmacotherapy in non-responders. • To evaluate the impact of controlling metabolic comorbidities on the hepatic disease course in MASLD. • To determine weight loss-independent mechanisms of MASLD improvement for incretin-based, weight loss-based or glucose-lowering treatments. • To determine whether improvement in steatotic liver injury will have a beneficial effect on metabolic dysfunction and control of comorbidities in MASLD. • To prospectively assess the potential additive or synergistic effects of combining drugs intended to treat MASH and/or cardiometabolic comorbidities. • To develop effective pharmacological treatments for individuals with MASH-related cirrhosis. • GLP1 receptor agonists may be considered to control sentative: Luca Valenti8,9; EASD co-chair: Michael Roden10,11,12; weight and obesity-related comorbidities, although EASD panel members: Fritz Schick13, Hannele Yki-Järvinen14,15, Amalia G astaldelli16; EASO co-chair: Roberto Vettor17; EASO specific trials in transplant recipients are needed (LoE panel members: Gema Frühbeck18, Dror Dicker19. (Affiliations: 5, weak recommendation, strong consensus). 1Department of Hepatology and Gastroenterology, Charité – Uni- versitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, Germany; 2Department of Medicine 4Department of Medical Sciences, Division of Gastroenterology, where further research is pressingly needed, are listed in of Pathophysiology and Transplantation, Università degli Studi di Box 1. Milano, Milan, Italy; 9Fondazione IRCCS Ca’ Granda Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, Milan, Italy; 10Department of Endocrinology Diabetology, German Diabetes Center, Leibniz Center for Diabe- Tacke1; Assistant to Chair: Paul Horn1; EASL panel members: Vin- Germany; 12German Center for Diabetes Research (DZD), Partner cent Wai-Sun Wong2, Vlad Ratziu3, Elisabetta Bugianesi4, Sven Düsseldorf, München-Neuherberg, Germany; 13Department of Radi- Diabetologia (2024) 67:2375–2392 2391 ogy, National Research Council-CNR, Pisa, Italy; 17Department of the Research Foundation Flanders (FWO) and has acted as consult- Medicine-DIMED, Universita' degli Studi di Padova, Padua, Italy; ant for Astellas, Falk Pharma, Genfit, Gilead Sciences, GlympsBio, 18Department of Endocrinology and Nutrition, Clínica Universi- Janssens Pharmaceutica, Inventiva, Merck Sharp & Dome, Pfizer, dad de Navarra, CIBEROBN, IdiSNA, Pamplona, Spain; 19Internal Roche. He has acted as consultant for Abbvie, Actelion, Aelin Thera- CSL Behring, Coherus, Echosens, Dr. Falk Pharma, Eisai, Enyo, The authors would like to thank the members of the Delphi Panel Galapagos, Galmed, Genetech, Genfit, Genflow Biosciences, Gilead of this Clinical Practice Guideline for their valuable contribution: Sciences, Intercept, Inventiva, Janssens Pharmaceutica, PRO.MED. Quentin Anstee, Marco Arrese, Heike Bantel, Giulia
