Diabetologia (2024) 67:2375–2392
KEYWORDS: masld, liver, strong, loe, consensus, adults, fibrosis, strong consensus, risk, recommendation, disease, loe strong, individuals, cirrhosis, recommendation strong


Panel Galapagos, Galmed, Genetech, Genfit, Genflow Biosciences, Gilead of this Clinical Practice Guideline for their valuable contribution: Sciences, Intercept, Inventiva, Janssens Pharmaceutica, PRO.MED. Quentin Anstee, Marco Arrese, Heike Bantel, Giulia Besutti, Jérôme Boursier, Christopher Byrne, Ali Canbay, Cyrielle Caussy, Helena Dome, Mursla Bio, NGM Bio, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Promethera, Cortez-Pinto, Mattias Ekstedt, Mirto Foletto, Jacob George, Liana Roche, Siemens Healthineers, and lectured for for Abbvie, Aller- Gheorghe, Isabel Graupera, Hannes Hagström, Kate Hallsworth, Onno gan, Bayer, Eisai, Genfit, Gilead Sciences, Janssens Cilag, Intercept, Holleboom, Achim Kautz, Marko Korenjak, Karoline Lackner, Chris- Inventiva, Merck Sharp & Dome, Novo Nordisk, Promethera, Sie- tos Lionis, Giulio Marchesini, Juris J. Meier, Juan M. Mendive, Luca mens. Dror Dicker received grants, personal fees, and nonfinancial Miele, Geltrude Mingrone, J. Bernadette Moore, Philip Newsome, support from NovoNordisk and Eli Lilly, and personal fees and non- George Papatheodoridis, Valerie Paradis, Gianluca Perseghin, Ralph financial support from Boehringer Ingelheim outside the submitted Peterli, Salvatore Petta, Manuel Romero-Gomez, Jörn M. Schatten- work. Vlad Ratziu serves as a consultant for Novo-Nordisk, Mad- berg, Silvia Sookoian, Wendy Spearman, Norbert Stefan, Maja Thiele, rigal, Boehringer-Ingelheim, GSK, and 89 Bio; and has a grant to Dina Tiniakos, Emmanouil Tsochatzis, Bernard Van Beers, José Wil- institution from MSD. Fritz Schick declares no conflict of interest lemse, Yusuf Yilmaz, and Volkan Yumuk. The authors would also like pertaining to this article. Roberto Vettor has received honoraria from to thank the external reviewers, and the EASL, EASD and EASO Gov- Novo Nordisk, Eli Lilly and AstraZeneca, and has served on advisory erning Boards for their valuable contribution to the review process. boards for Novo Nordisk and Eli Lilly. Authors’ relationships and activities Luca Valenti has disclosed Contribution statement Each panel member was responsible for draft- speaking engagements with Viatris, Novo Nordisk, and GSK; con- ing a specific section of the guidelines. The Panel Chair and Assistant sulting roles with Novo Nordisk, Pfizer, Boehringer Ingelheim, Resa- to Chair were then responsible for compiling and extensively revising lis, and MSD; and received unrestricted grant support from Gilead. the full manuscript text, which was subsequently reviewed, revised and Elisabetta Bugianesi serves as a consultant for Novo Nordisk, approved by all panel members. Boehringer Ingelheim, Eli Lilly, Pfizer, Bristol-Myers Squibb, and MSD. Amalia Gastaldelli has acted as a consultant for Boehringer Ingelheim, Eli Lilly and Company, and Metadeq Diagnostics; Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attri-
