Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


of adipose tissue depending on the type of lipodystrophy ( 1 , 2 ). Lipodystrophy classically has been classified as congenital or acquired. Patients with partial lipodystrophy may exhibit excess adipose tissue accumulation in preserved areas of the body. Lipodystrophy syndromes usually manifest with several metabolic abnormalities associated with severe insulin resistance that include diabetes mellitus, hypertriglyceridemia, and hepatic steatosis which can progress to steatohepatitis. Other common manifestations are acanthosis nigricans, polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS), and eruptive xanthomas (due to severe hypertriglyceridemia) ( 3 , 4 ). Metabolic derangements are mostly responsible for the serious comorbidities associated with lipodystrophy; some of which are chronic complications of poorly controlled diabetes, acute pancreatitis, hepatic cirrhosis, proteinuria and renal failure, and premature cardiovascular disease ( Fig.1 ) ( 1 , 2 ). Typically, standard treatments fail to achieve good glycemic control in most patients with lipodystrophy, although episodes of diabetic ketoacidosis have rarely been reported ( 5 ). The severity of the comorbidities depends on the subtype, extent of fat loss, and other clinical characteristics such as gender and age. Major causes of mortality are cardiovascular diseases ( 6 - 9 ), liver diseases ( 2 , 10 ), acute pancreatitis ( 2 ), renal failure ( 10 ), and sepsis ( 3 ). In certain areas of the world, infectious etiology also rises to the surface suggesting that perturbed immune function may be at play ( 11 ). Clinical features of lipodystrophy are shown in Table 1 . It is important to note that there are additional components of the disease that may be specific to each molecular etiology. In addition, we are beginning to recognize that patients often report reduced quality of life with increased overall pain (requiring frequent use of pain medications), sleep disturbances and sleep apnea, gastrointestinal dysmotility, mood disturbances such as depression and anxiety and psychiatric diseases ( 12 , 13 ). Figure 1. Consequences of Lipodystrophy. Table 1. Shared Clinical Features That Raise Suspicion for Lipodystrophy View in own window Loss or absence of adipose tissue in a partial or generalized fashion Disproportionate hyperphagia (inability to stop eating, waking up to eat, fighting for food) Muscle hypertrophy and prominent veins (phlebomegaly) Cushingoid appearance (e.g., familial partial lipodystrophy) Pseudo-acromegaloid appearance Progeroid appearance (progeroid forms) Acanthosis nigricans (associated with insulin resistance) Proteinuria, renal dysfunction Reproductive dysfunction (reduced fertility, hyperandrogenism, oligomenorrhea, hirsutism and/or polycystic ovaries) Musculoskeletal abnormalities (occasionally) Cardiomyopathy (occasionally)
