Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


Pseudo-acromegaloid appearance Progeroid appearance (progeroid forms) Acanthosis nigricans (associated with insulin resistance) Proteinuria, renal dysfunction Reproductive dysfunction (reduced fertility, hyperandrogenism, oligomenorrhea, hirsutism and/or polycystic ovaries) Musculoskeletal abnormalities (occasionally) Cardiomyopathy (occasionally) Metabolic abnormalities Relatively early onset of insulin resistant diabetes which can be severe in some patients with requirement for high doses of insulin, e.g., requiring ≥200 U/day, ≥2 U/kg/day, or U-500 insulin, early development of complications. Dyslipidemia which is characterized by elevated triglycerides and low HDL cholesterol. Hypertriglyceridemia can be very severe (≥500 mg/dL) and is unresponsive to treatment with associated history of acute pancreatitis. Hepatomegaly and/or elevated transaminases in the absence of a known cause of liver disease (e.g., viral hepatitis). Hepatic steatosis (e.g. radiologic evidence), Hepatomegaly, Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH), cirrhosis. Lipodystrophy is an intriguing rare disease that helps us obtain a better understanding of the pathophysiology of metabolic abnormalities associated with insulin resistance. The main cause of insulin resistance in lipodystrophy is the fact that the excess energy cannot be stored in adipose tissue, which is secondary to either the near total lack of adipocyte storage in patients with generalized lipodystrophy or a limited capacity to store in partial lipodystrophy. Limited lipid storage capacity causes the failure of buffering for postprandial lipids and secreting substantial adipokines, which in turn results in excessive levels of triglycerides and lipid intermediates in circulation. The body stores fat at ectopic sites such as the liver because of inability to store energy in the subcutaneous adipose depots. Levels of adipokines and hormones secreted from the adipose tissue, most characteristically leptin, are decreased in these patients especially if fat loss is extensive ( 1 , 2 , 9 , 14 , 15 ). Leptin has a fundamental role in glucose and lipid homeostasis, but more importantly, leptin is the key hormone responsible for regulating food intake ( 16 ). Low levels of leptin in lipodystrophy trigger hyperphagia, which is often extreme ( 17 - 19 ). In addition, leptin protects pancreatic beta cells from lipotoxicity at least in rodent models ( 20 , 21 ). Leptin improves insulin sensitivity by increasing glucose uptake in peripheral tissues such as muscle via sympathetic nervous system activation. Leptin also decreases hepatic gluconeogenesis ( 22 - 24 ). DIAGNOSIS The diagnosis of lipodystrophy is usually made clinically based on history, body distribution of adipose tissue, physical examination, and metabolic profile. Lipodystrophy should be suspected in any person
