Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


). DIAGNOSIS The diagnosis of lipodystrophy is usually made clinically based on history, body distribution of adipose tissue, physical examination, and metabolic profile. Lipodystrophy should be suspected in any person with partial or complete lack of subcutaneous adipose tissue. However, the diagnosis of lipodystrophy is often delayed because of the rarity of these syndromes and the failure of the physicians to recognize this disease. Although patients with congenital generalized lipodystrophy lack subcutaneous adipose tissue from birth, specific diagnosis is usually made during childhood or even adulthood when they start developing metabolic abnormalities. This is at least partly because the awareness of lipodystrophy is still low among physicians. The problem of recognition is much more common for partial lipodystrophy. The distribution of fat loss varies in different types of partial lipodystrophy. At first glance, certain types of partial lipodystrophy cannot be clearly distinguished from other common metabolic diseases (e.g., poorly controlled diabetes mellitus with truncal obesity) based on phenotype unless the physician is suspicious for lipodystrophy and checks carefully for certain characteristic such as the appearance of the limbs which look thinner than in a normal person. Also, the onset of fat loss may be gradual and delay the diagnosis both in genetic and acquired forms ( 3 , 4 ). Lipodystrophy syndromes should be considered in the differential diagnosis in patients with relatively early onset insulin resistant diabetes mellitus, persistent hypertriglyceridemia, hepatic steatosis, PCOS, and hepatosplenomegaly. Other diseases that should be considered in the differential diagnosis of lipodystrophy are listed in Table 2 . Table 2. Differential Diagnosis of Lipodystrophy Syndromes View in own window Generalized Lipodystrophy Syndromes Constitutional thinness Uncontrolled type 1 diabetes mellitus HIV-associated wasting Anorexia nervosa, cachexia and starvation Chronic infections Adrenocortical insufficiency Thyrotoxicosis Acromegaly Diencephalic syndrome Partial Lipodystrophy Syndromes Cushing’s syndrome Truncal obesity Type 2 diabetes (lipodystrophy like phenotype) HIV associated lipodystrophy Multiple symmetric lipomatosis Progeroid syndromes Acromegaly A thorough physical examination is required for clinical diagnosis of lipodystrophy. Clinicians should pay specific attention to evaluating the extremities and the gluteal region for leanness and muscularity. In addition, other body parts should be examined for accumulation of excessive amounts of fat. Due to marked abdominal obesity and excessive fat accumulation in the neck, patients with familial partial lipodystrophy (FPLD) may be misdiagnosed as Cushing’s syndrome ( 2 ). The absence of subcutaneous fat can be quantified by using conventional anthropometric measurements, dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA)
