Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


partial lipodystrophy (FPLD) may be misdiagnosed as Cushing’s syndrome ( 2 ). The absence of subcutaneous fat can be quantified by using conventional anthropometric measurements, dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scan, whole-body magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and computed tomography (CT) scan ( 4 ). Anthropometry including skinfold thickness and limb circumference measurements are easy and affordable ways to estimate the fat loss and redistribution ( 9 ). Use of skin calipers may aid, but when unavailable, simple inspection and palpation of skin thickness may be very useful. We have used a cut-off of 11 mm in men and 22 mm in women in mid-thigh thickness as a screening point to suspect clinical presence of lipodystrophy that warrants further detailed work-up. For facial fat loss, serial photography may be used to evaluate the gradual loss of facial fat. DXA, MRI, and CT scans are non-invasive modalities that may be used for quantification of fat on a tissue-specific basis, but at least in the United States, none are covered for this purpose by insurance companies ( 3 , 4 , 25 ). New Diagnostic Strategies and Technological Tools Due to the complex nature, heterogeneity, and rarity of lipodystrophy syndromes, the need for accurate and objective diagnostic tools is increasing. Imaging techniques play an important role in visualizing fat distribution and assisting in the diagnosis of lipodystrophy. While measuring subcutaneous fat tissue thickness with high-resolution ultrasound is a practical and non-invasive method, results vary significantly depending on age, gender, and ethnicity ( 26 ). Body fat distribution can be quantitatively determined using whole body Dual Energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA scans). Work from our group indicates that images obtained with the "Fat Shadows" method, based on highlighting only the fat tissue in DXA images, can support the diagnosis of FPLD and generalized lipodystrophy (GL). Using this approach, FPLD was distinguished from control subjects with 85% sensitivity and 96% specificity, while GL was distinguished from nonobese control subjects with 100% sensitivity and specificity ( 27 ). In addition, Garg and colleagues reported that the DXA-derived lower limb fat (%) is diagnostic of FPLD2 with 99% specificity and 100% sensitivity in adult females below the 1st percentile ( 28 ). A study by our group also suggests that the combined use of measurements performed on pelvic MRI images can be promising for the reliable diagnosis of FPLD. The combination of gluteal fat thickness ≤13 mm and
