Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


suggests that the combined use of measurements performed on pelvic MRI images can be promising for the reliable diagnosis of FPLD. The combination of gluteal fat thickness ≤13 mm and pubic/gluteal fat ratio ≥2.5 was found to have 97% sensitivity and 91% specificity in the overall cohort and 100% sensitivity and 90% specificity in females for the diagnosis of FPLD ( 29 ). Technological applications are also being developed to increase awareness of lipodystrophy and provide practical solutions for non-experts. LipoDDx, designed as a new mobile app, stands out with its 80% effectiveness in recognizing lipodystrophy subtypes when screening patients with adipose tissue loss, but more research is still needed in this area ( 30 ). In addition, integrating artificial intelligence (AI) into medical diagnosis may hold promise for diagnosing lipodystrophy syndromes in the future. In this regard, a study by da Cunha Olegario NB et al. ( 31 ) was designed to enable the identification of the CGL phenotype from patient images with a deep learning model, analyzing more than 330 images, including individuals of different ages with phenotypically confusing features. After a fourfold cross-validation technique, the CGL phenotype could be identified with a mean accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity of over 90% ( 31 ). These developments in diagnostic methods and technological tools for lipodystrophy syndromes not only increase diagnostic accuracy but also pave the way for creating a more personalized and effective treatment algorithms. Laboratory Testing Laboratory testing is a valuable tool for physicians to support the diagnosis. If the physical phenotype is not recognized, hyperglycemia, insulin resistance, and severe hypertriglyceridemia that is non-responsive to therapy may provide important clues for the diagnosis. When fat loss is not confirmed by the physical examination or by an imaging modality, hyperglycemia and hypertriglyceridemia that are resistant or unresponsive to conventional treatment may serve as surrogate indicators to the clinician that a patient may have lipodystrophy. Lipodystrophy should be suspected in patients with uncontrolled diabetes (e.g., requiring ≥200 units/day (≥2 units/kg/day) of insulin) or triglyceride levels that remain persistently elevated (e.g., ≥500 mg/dL) despite fully optimized therapy and diet modifications. All patients except those with localized lipodystrophy, should be tested for blood glucose levels, glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c), serum lipids (especially triglyceride levels), and liver function tests on the initial evaluation and during subsequent encounters. In addition to these laboratory evaluations, leptin levels may be used in support of the diagnosis. However,
