Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


levels), and liver function tests on the initial evaluation and during subsequent encounters. In addition to these laboratory evaluations, leptin levels may be used in support of the diagnosis. However, it should be noted that leptin assays are not standardized, and low leptin levels may be observed in other conditions such as hypothalamic amenorrhea and malnutrition. Thus, low leptin level is not specific for the diagnosis lipodystrophy ( 4 , 32 ). Circulating adiponectin though not a clinically available test, may be helpful in differentiating patients with generalized lipodystrophy from those who have constitutional leanness, fat loss due to calorie imbalance or excessive exercise as well as poorly controlled diabetes mellitus with insulin deficiency. In all of the cases except lipodystrophy, adiponectin levels will be normal or even higher than normal whereas in lipodystrophy including familial partial lipodystrophy, serum adiponectin levels are usually low. Genetic Testing In the genetic forms of lipodystrophy, parental consanguinity and the mode of inheritance should be questioned ( 2 ). Genetic testing is available for known genetic forms of lipodystrophy. In our earlier version of this review, we had mentioned that genetic tests to be available only in certain clinical and research laboratories; however, there has been incredible growth in the availability of genetic testing through commercial or certified clinical labs in the US since 2016. Because additional loci for genetic lipodystrophy syndromes are presumed to be present, negative genetic tests do not rule out a genetic condition. When commercial panels are not positive, an attempt for whole exome or even whole genome testing with mitochondrial gene evaluation has evolved as viable and increasingly more available strategies. If these latter tests cannot be undertaken commercially, ongoing research in specialty centers can be considered where pipelines to analyze VUS (variant of uncertain significance) and evaluate transcriptomic profiles from PBMCs or tissues may be considered. Gauging Disease Severity in Lipodystrophy: Roadmap for Clinical Follow Up Given that lipodystrophy syndromes are complex and may impact multiple organs and systems, it is important to start a follow-up schedule while paying attention to all aspects of the conditions. To help assess the status and disease progression of patients with lipodystrophy, the LD Severity Score study group has developed the 'LD Severity Score (LDS)', an online tool easily accessible to all clinicians. This online application generates an overall score using multisystem assessments across eight domains (diabetes and its complications, lipid status,
