Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


Severity Score (LDS)', an online tool easily accessible to all clinicians. This online application generates an overall score using multisystem assessments across eight domains (diabetes and its complications, lipid status, cardiovascular conditions, liver and kidney function, reproductive system status, and other conditions) to capture the various clinical manifestations of the disease holistically. The Clinical Global Impression (CGI) and the global improvement (GI) scores were generated based on the subjective assessments of all these categories by a group of experts during a representative patient visit as part of the app's validation. The LDS demonstrated high content validity and feasibility, along with high reliability indicated by interclass correlation coefficients greater than 0.95 ( 33 ). The results of the lipodystrophy severity scores calculated for each patient in the app are shown in a figure, compared to the Clinical Global Impression scores generated by the experts. The LD Scoring tool, developed to predict the clinical outcomes and/or treatment effects of lipodystrophy, can be accessed at https://ldscoring.com/ . CLASSIFICATION OF LIPODYSTROPHY SYNDROMES Lipodystrophy syndromes can be classified as genetic or acquired. However, they are simply classified as generalized and partial in clinical practice most of the time ( Table 3 ). Table 3. Classification of Lipodystrophy Syndromes View in own window Type Lipodystrophy Phenotype Subtype (Genes Involved) Key Clinical Features Generalized lipodystrophy syndromes Congenital Generalized Lipodystrophy (CGL) Near total absence of the body fat starting at birth or shortly after, generalized muscularity, metabolic abnormalities CGL1 ( AGPAT2) Autosomal recessive Loss of metabolically active fat with sparing of mechanically functioning fat CGL2 ( BSCL2) Autosomal recessive Generalized absence of adipose tissue CGL3 ( CAV1 ) Autosomal recessive Short stature, vitamin D resistance, hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, achalasia CGL4 ( PTRF) Autosomal recessive Myopathy, skeletal abnormalities, pyloric stenosis and gastrointestinal motility problems, cardiac arrhythmias Other genes associated with GL phenotype LMNA (e.g., T10I, biallelic lamin A specific variants), PPARG (biallelic variants), PCYT1A, PLAAT3 Acquired Generalized Lipodystrophy (AGL) Near total absence of the body fat commonly develops during childhood or adolescence, metabolic abnormalities Autoimmune AGL follows an autoimmune disease, e.g. JDM Panniculitis-associated Tender subcutaneous nodules that herald the onset of AGL Idiopathic No history of auto-immune disease or panniculitis Partial lipodystrophy syndromes Familial Partial Lipodystrophy (FPLD) Loss of fat from the limbs, metabolic abnormalities FPLD1, Kobberling (Unknown) Loss of subcutaneous fat from the limbs, although they usually have truncal obesity. Palpable “ledge” formation between the normal and lipodystrophic areas
