Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


have been over 300 reported cases to date ( 14 , 44 , 45 ). In addition to lack of subcutaneous fat, patients may present with hepatomegaly and umbilical protuberance during infancy. Extensive acanthosis nigricans and prominent musculature may also contribute to the striking phenotype of these patients ( 46 ). Affected females may have irregular menstrual cycles, oligomenorrhea, clitoromegaly, and hirsutism. Premature menarche and pubarche are also rarely seen. Most males were reported to be fertile whereas only a few females had successful pregnancies ( 47 ). Sperm abnormalities have been reported in CGL. Other clinical manifestations include advanced bone age, bone cysts which may progress over time, mild mental retardation, cardiomyopathy, and cardiac rhythm disturbances ( 48 - 50 ). A significant association has been found between diabetic foot ulcers and, specifically, generalized lipodystrophy; foot ulcer complications may arise earlier in GL than in partial lipodystrophy (PL) ( 51 ). Children with CGL usually have a voracious appetite and accelerated growth. Basal metabolic rate may be increased. Patients also report heat intolerance, especially after meals and sometimes gustatory sweating. Hypertriglyceridemia usually presents with high levels of chylomicrons and very low-density lipoproteins (VLDL) and reduced levels of high-density lipoproteins (HDL). Low HDL cholesterol levels are the most common lipid abnormality ( 49 ). Severe hypertriglyceridemia usually results in recurrent acute pancreatitis. Insulin resistance commonly results in diabetes in adolescence or later. Diabetes is rarely responsive to insulin therapy. Serum leptin levels are very low ( 32 ). Metabolic dysfunction–associated liver disease (MASLD) and steatohepatitis are common in individuals with CGL and have the potential to advance to cirrhosis at relatively early stages of life ( 49 , 52 ). A study conducted in Brazil determined that the average age of death of 20 CGL patients who died between 1997-2017 was 27.1±12.4 years. In this patient group, most of whom were CGL2, the most common causes of death were infectious causes (35%), such as pneumonia and liver complications (35%), such as cirrhosis ( 11 ). The genetic defect can be determined in the majority of patients with CGL. There are at least four molecularly distinct types of CGL. However, it is noteworthy that there are some cases of CGL reported without any pathogenic variants in any of the four genes described below. CONGENITAL GENERALIZED LIPODYSTROPHY TYPE 1 (CGL1) 1-acylglycerol-3-phophate O-acyltransferase 2 (AGPAT2), a key enzyme in triglyceride synthesis, is deficient
