Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


without any pathogenic variants in any of the four genes described below. CONGENITAL GENERALIZED LIPODYSTROPHY TYPE 1 (CGL1) 1-acylglycerol-3-phophate O-acyltransferase 2 (AGPAT2), a key enzyme in triglyceride synthesis, is deficient in CGL1. AGPAT2 gene is located on chromosome 9q34. AGPAT2 catalyzes the acylation of lysophosphaditic acid to form phosphaditic acid, a key intermediate in the biosynthesis of triglyceride and glycerophospholipids ( 53 ). Precisely how AGPAT2 deficiency causes lipodystrophy remains unsolved, but possible mechanisms include impaired lipogenesis, altered differentiation of preadipocytes to adipocytes, altering normal activation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt and PPARG pathways in the early stages of adipogenesis, and apoptosis/necrosis of adipocytes ( 2 , 54 , 55 ). More recent findings suggest that lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) could potentially trigger inflammation and fibrosis in the adipose tissue, leading to eventual loss of adipose tissue. In addition, LPA accumulation in the liver can also trigger the progress of metabolic dysfunction-associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD) to MASH ( 56 ). Adiposity is preserved in certain body parts such as orbits, palms and soles, which constitute the mechanical adipose tissue ( 32 , 57 - 59 ) ( Fig.2 ). AGPAT2 pathogenic variants along with BSCL2 pathogenic variants are responsible for the majority of the CGL cases. Figure 2. CGL1. Near total absence of adipose tissue in CGL1 (2A, 2C, 2D). Magnetic resonance images document the lack of subcutaneous fat (2B). Liver biopsy reveals severe hepatic steatosis with both micro and macrovesicular steatosis (Hematoxylin and eosin staining; magnification 200X), 2E). CONGENITAL GENERALIZED LIPODYSTROPHY TYPE 2 (CGL2) CGL2 is caused by pathogenic variants in the BSCL2 gene which have been mapped to chromosome 11q13. This gene encodes a 398-amino acid integral endoplasmic reticulum membrane protein called seipin ( 60 ). This protein is assumed to take part in lipid droplet formation and adipocyte differentiation ( 61 , 62 ). Patients with BSCL2 pathogenic variants have the most severe disease and are born without any adipose tissue. Hypertriglyceridemia and hepatic steatosis can be detected in early childhood; and hepatic involvement can be more severe in CGL2 than other subtypes ( 49 , 63 ). Intellectual disability and cardiomyopathy are more common than in CGL1. CGL2 patients are also distinguished from the CGL1 patients with the loss of mechanical adipose tissue ( 64 ) ( Fig.3 ). Although the mechanism is not clear, adiponectin levels are relatively higher in patients with CGL2 despite severely suppressed
