Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


the loss of mechanical adipose tissue ( 64 ) ( Fig.3 ). Although the mechanism is not clear, adiponectin levels are relatively higher in patients with CGL2 despite severely suppressed leptin levels which can help in the differential diagnosis ( 65 ). In addition, rare specific variants of the BSCL2 gene that lead to the skipping of exon 7 are associated with Celia’s encephalopathy (Progressive Encephalopathy with/without Lipodystrophy, PELD), a severe progressive neurodegenerative disorder that also presents with a GL phenotype. ( 66 - 68 ). Figure 3. CGL2. Near total absence of adipose tissue in a patient with CGL2 (3A, 3B). Also note that the patient shown now deceased was only 29 years old at the time the picture was taken, suggesting the possibility of accelerated aging. CONGENITAL GENERALIZED LIPODYSTROPHY TYPE 3 (CGL3) CGL3 is caused by pathogenic variants in the CAV1 gene which are located on chromosome 7q31 ( 9 , 15 , 69 ). This gene encodes the protein caveolin-1, which is an integral part of caveolae found in plasma membranes. Caveolin 1 binds fatty acids on the plasma membranes and translocates them into lipid droplets. Mutated caveolin 1 disrupts lipid droplet formation and adipocyte differentiation ( 70 ). CGL3 is distinguished from other CGLs by the presence of unique features such as preserved bone marrow fat, vitamin D resistance, hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and decreased bone density ( 48 ). In addition to this classical presentation, whole exome sequencing has identified de novo heterozygous null CAV1 pathogenic variants in two patients of European origin with generalized fat loss, thin mottled skin, and progeroid features at birth; however, no differences in the number and morphology of caveolae have been found in dermal fibroblasts ( 71 ), which suggests that this observation needs to be confirmed in further pedigrees. Heterozygous CAV1 frameshift mutations have also been reported to be associated with partial lipodystrophy ( Fig.4 ) ( 72 ). Several features such as congenital cataracts and cerebellar progressive ataxia were also present ( 73 ). Apart from this, a novel p.(His79Glnfs*3) CAV1 variant was identified in four consanguineous patients diagnosed with CGL3. In addition to typical findings, two patients had esophageal achalasia, while the other had atypical retinitis pigmentosa findings ( 74 ). Figure 4. Partial LD with Heterozygous CAV1 Pathogenic Variant. CONGENITAL GENERALIZED LIPODYSTROPHY TYPE 4 (CGL4) Type 4 CGL (CGL4) is caused by pathogenic variants in the PTRF
