Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


( 74 ). Figure 4. Partial LD with Heterozygous CAV1 Pathogenic Variant. CONGENITAL GENERALIZED LIPODYSTROPHY TYPE 4 (CGL4) Type 4 CGL (CGL4) is caused by pathogenic variants in the PTRF gene. The product of this gene, CAVIN, is a polymerase 1 and transcript release factor which regulates caveolae 1 and 3 ( 75 ). CGL4 can be recognized by distinct clinical characteristics. The majority of CGL4 patients that have been documented so far have had null mutations in the CAVIN1/PTRF gene. However, a novel homozygous mutation (c.21T>A; p.Tyr7Ter) was described in this gene in two pediatric siblings who exhibited slight variations in their phenotypical presentation, and whose clinical manifestations were compatible with CGL4 ( 76 ). This rare subtype of CGL is associated with myopathy, pyloric stenosis, gastrointestinal dysmotility, arrhythmias that include exercise-induced ventricular tachycardia and sudden death, and skeletal abnormalities such as atlantoaxial instability and scoliosis ( 77 - 79 ) ( Fig.5 ). Regardless of metabolic illness, patients with CGL4 are more prone to suffering life-threatening arrhythmias and cardiac problems throughout childhood ( 49 ). Figure 5. CGL4. Lack of subcutaneous fat (5A), scoliosis (5A), gastrointestinal dysmotility (5B), and exercise-induced ventricular arrhythmia (5C) in CGL4. OTHER GENES ASSOCIATED WITH GENERALIZED LIPODYSTROPHY Biallellic loss-of-function pathogenic variants in phosphate cytidylyltransferase 1 alpha ( PCYT1A ), the rate-limiting enzyme in the Kennedy pathway of de novo phosphatidylcholine synthesis, have been reported to be associated with generalized lipodystrophy, severe hepatic steatosis and low HDL cholesterol levels ( 80 ). Although widely involved in the familial partial lipodystrophy pathogenesis, several pathogenic variants in the LMNA and PPARG genes have been associated with generalized lipodystrophy. Heterozygous LMNA p.T10I pathogenic variant was reported to be associated with generalized lipodystrophy, diabetes mellitus, acanthosis nigricans, hypertriglyceridemia, and hepatomegaly ( Fig.6 ) ( 81 ). Biallelic pathogenic variants in PPARG has also been reported to cause generalized lipodystrophy ( 82 ). Furthermore, research has shown that a deficiency of phospholipase A/acyltransferase 3 (PLAAT3) , an enzyme that modifies phospholipids and is predominantly found in neural and white adipose tissue (WAT), leads to monogenic lipodystrophy syndrome. Patients with biallelic loss-of-function variants in PLAAT3 show varying degrees of fat loss, from partial to generalized, insulin resistance, diabetes, hypertriglyceridemia, fatty liver, and polycystic ovary syndrome. Additionally, these patients exhibit numerous neurogenic symptoms, including demyelinating neuropathy, migraines, and intellectual disability, along with musculoskeletal dysmorphisms ( 83 ). Figure 6. Heterozygous LMNA p.T10I
