Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


and polycystic ovary syndrome. Additionally, these patients exhibit numerous neurogenic symptoms, including demyelinating neuropathy, migraines, and intellectual disability, along with musculoskeletal dysmorphisms ( 83 ). Figure 6. Heterozygous LMNA p.T10I Pathogenic Variant. Generalized lack of subcutaneous fat (6A), eruptive xanthomata (6B), and lipemia retinalis (6C) secondary to severe hypertriglyceridemia in a patient with heterozygous LMNA p.T10I pathogenic variant. Acquired Generalized Lipodystrophy Acquired generalized lipodystrophy (AGL), also known as Lawrence Syndrome, is very rare. Generalized fat loss is not present at birth but develops later in life. It occurs over a variable period, ranging from a few weeks to years ( Fig.7 ) ( 9 ). Figure 7. AGL. Generalized loss of subcutaneous fat in two patients with AGL (7A-D). Note the distal fat loss around the feet as opposed to patients with CGL phenotypes. Although the pathogenesis of AGL has been elusive previously, it has always been hypothesized to be linked to autoimmune destruction of adipocytes. Autoantibodies against adipocyte membranes have been reported ( 84 - 86 ). Recently, the presence of antibodies against the lipid droplet surface protein perilipin-1 (PLIN1), an essential regulator of the lipolytic pathway, has been demonstrated in some AGL patients ( 87 - 90 ). Anti-PLIN1 autoantibodies in AGL patients were first detected in 2018 in three out of five patients ( 90 ). Subsequently, in a study focused on anti-PLIN1 antibodies, 50% of the 40 AGL patients examined exhibited the antibodies, whereas in another investigation, 37% of the 46 patients were found to have these antibodies ( 88 , 89 ). Interestingly, one of the AGL patients with perilipin-1 antibody also had a mutation in the AIRE gene that causes autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome type 1 (APS1) ( 88 ). Considering these studies, whether perilipin-1 antibodies can be a potential biomarker in AGL patients and the relationship between APS1 and lipodystrophy are still curious. AGL is associated with panniculitis in approximately 25% of the patients. This type may manifest with subcutaneous inflammatory nodules (panniculitis), which heal by localized loss of fat and eventually results in complete loss of subcutaneous fat ( 9 ). Another one fourth of the AGL patients present with an autoimmune disease that include juvenile dermatomyositis (JDM), Sjogren’s syndrome, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic sclerosis, and systemic lupus erythematosus ( 9 , 85 ). Of these, JDM particularly correlates with AGL. 8-40% of patients with JDM develop AGL ( Fig.8 ) ( 86 ,
