Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


sclerosis, and systemic lupus erythematosus ( 9 , 85 ). Of these, JDM particularly correlates with AGL. 8-40% of patients with JDM develop AGL ( Fig.8 ) ( 86 , 91 , 92 ). In the remaining 50% of the cases, AGL is not associated with any autoimmune or inflammatory condition ( 9 ). Some patients with AGL exhibit low serum complement 4 levels and auto-immune hepatitis, sometimes together with type 1 diabetes, which suggests the involvement of classical complement pathway in AGL pathogenesis ( 93 ). Recently, with the groundbreaking and increasing use of immune checkpoint inhibitors in cancer treatments, it has been reported in the literature that acquired generalized lipodystrophy developed after anti-PD-1 treatment (nivolumab and pembrolizumab) in four patients ( 94 - 96 ). As mentioned above, it is of note that some of the patients with AGL are recently recognized to have additional progeroid features and may harbor a specific pathogenic of LMNA gene at position 10 (p.T10I). We have reported clinical presentations of these patients recently in a case series report. One of these patients also had biopsy proven juvenile dermatomyositis suggesting that the long-recognized association between AGL and JDM may be linked through distinctive molecular mechanisms ( 81 ). In patients with AGL, metabolic abnormalities associated with severe insulin resistance that include hypertriglyceridemia, diabetes mellitus, hepatic steatosis, acanthosis nigricans, menstrual irregularities and PCOS may develop soon after the recognition of fat loss. Patients have suppressed levels of leptin and adiponectin ( 9 , 32 ). Figure 8. Juvenile Dermatomyositis and AGL. Generalized loss of subcutaneous fat in a patient with juvenile dermatomyositis associated AGL (8A, 8B). Note the absence of muscle tissue as well in this severely affected patient. PARTIAL LIPODYSTROPHY Fat loss affects only part of the body in partial lipodystrophy. Partial lipodystrophy is categorized into inherited (familial partial lipodystrophy, FPLD) and acquired forms (acquired partial lipodystrophy, APL). Both patients with FPLD and APL start losing fat at some point during their life. Lower limbs are most frequently affected in FPLD. There might be accumulation of adipose tissue in the face and neck. On the other hand, APL is characterized by fat loss that spreads through a cephalocaudal distribution from the face, neck, shoulders, arms, and forearms and that extends to the thoracic region and upper abdomen. There are numerous genes associated with FPLD. Despite the growing number of proven genetic markers, about
