Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


shoulders, arms, and forearms and that extends to the thoracic region and upper abdomen. There are numerous genes associated with FPLD. Despite the growing number of proven genetic markers, about half of the patients do not have a discernible single gene variation. Inherited Partial Lipodystrophy Syndromes Patients with these syndromes usually notice partial fat loss around puberty. Fat loss pattern is very heterogeneous in patients with FPLD. Even among patients with pathogenic variants of the same gene, fat loss patterns may vary. FAMILIAL PARTIAL LIPODYSTROPHY TYPE 1 (FPLD1) The loss of adipose tissue is mainly limited to the extremities in patients with FPLD1 or Kobberling-type lipodystrophy ( 97 ). There is a normal or slightly increased fat in the face and neck. Truncal obesity is a common finding. The hallmark of this syndrome is the formation of a palpable “ledge” between the normal and lipodystrophic areas ( 98 ). It is believed that women are diagnosed more easily as they usually present with a more severe disease. Metabolic complications usually develop in early adulthood. Insulin resistant diabetes and metabolic syndrome are common and may cause premature coronary artery disease. Hypertriglyceridemia may trigger episodes of acute pancreatitis. Acanthosis nigricans is commonly seen. Leptin levels are variable and correlate with body mass index (BMI), which suggests that the levels of leptin are appropriate for the fat content in FPLD1 ( 98 ). The Cambridge group recently reported that this form of lipodystrophy may have a polygenic etiology ( 99 ). There is a remarkable phenotypical heterogeneity among patients with FPLD1. In this spectrum of FPLD1, patients with significant central obesity are likely polygenic. This type of presentation is relatively more common, and it is sometimes difficult to make a distinction between FPLD1 and truncal obesity complicated with metabolic syndrome ( 100 ). The use of radiological methods such as DXA, CT, or MRI can help in this population to further define body fat distribution in addition to physical examination and skinfold measurements. On the other hand, some FPLD patients with no increase in truncal fat are classified as FPLD1, if no gene is identified. These patients can still have a monogenic form of FPLD that has not been discovered. Two different presentations of FPLD1 are shown in Fig.9 . Figure 9. FPLD1. Heterogeneity in FPLD1. Patient in A to D presented with decrease in peripheral fat depots and preservation of abdominal fat.
