Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


of FPLD1 are shown in Fig.9 . Figure 9. FPLD1. Heterogeneity in FPLD1. Patient in A to D presented with decrease in peripheral fat depots and preservation of abdominal fat. Patient in E to H has increased abdominal adiposity. The formation of a palpable “ledge” between the normal and lipodystrophic areas is shown (9C and 9E). (Images E-H used with permission by Dr. Jonathan Q. Purnell from publication Diabetes Care 2003;26(6):1819-24). FAMILIAL PARTIAL LIPODYSTROPHY TYPE 2 (FPLD2) FPLD2 or Dunnigan Variety lipodystrophy is an autosomal dominant syndrome which is characterized by gradual onset of subcutaneous fat loss from the extremities during puberty. Affected individuals have prominent muscularity in their extremities. Excess fat accumulates in the neck causing a buffalo hump ( Fig.10 ). This phenotype sometimes can be misdiagnosed as Cushing’s syndrome at first glance ( 15 ). Pathogenic variants in the LMNA gene, which is located on chromosome 1q21-22, cause FPLD2. The LMNA gene codes nuclear lamina proteins, lamin A and C. Pathogenic variants in the LMNA gene can be scattered across many exons of the gene and are missense mutations ( 101 ). Mutant lamins disrupt the interaction between nuclear lamina and chromatin and may result in apoptosis, which may be followed by premature adipocyte death ( 102 ). Figure 10. FPLD2. Subcutaneous adipose tissue loss from the extremities, excess fat accumulation in the face and neck, and Cushingoid appearance in FPLD2 (10A-D; Note that one of the patients (10A) previously underwent liposuction for removal of unwanted excess fat from the neck). Females have a more recognizable phenotype and more severe metabolic complications ( 103 ). Most patients with FPLD2 develop diabetes in their twenties and thirties. Other components of insulin resistance are usually present. Patients with FPLD2 are at high risk for cardiovascular diseases that usually develop at relatively younger ages ( 104 ). Arrhythmias such as atrial fibrillation or flutter are more common in patients with LMNA pathogenic variants and may occur at an earlier age. Detailed cardiac analyses among patients with LMNA pathogenic variants showed that individuals with non-482 LMNA variants exhibited a high possibility of suffering from vigorous cardiac complications such as myocardial infarction, atrial fibrillation/flutter, cardiomyopathy, and congestive heart failure ( 105 ). Our retrospective analysis of 494 patients with LMNA -associated lipodystrophy revealed that the most prevalent LMNA variants were R482Q and R482W. This paper also highlights that patients with the R482W
