Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


Our retrospective analysis of 494 patients with LMNA -associated lipodystrophy revealed that the most prevalent LMNA variants were R482Q and R482W. This paper also highlights that patients with the R482W variant are diagnosed with diabetes at a significantly younger age compared to those with the R482Q variant (27 years vs. 40 years, respectively) ( 106 ). There is a phenotypic heterogeneity among patients with FPLD2. For instance, less severe loss of fat has been reported in patients with exon 11 LMNA pathogenic variants which affects only lamin A protein ( 107 ). LMNA R349W pathogenic variant (exon 6) is associated with facial fat loss which is uncommon in FPLD2 ( 104 , 108 , 109 ). Exon 1 variants are associated with severe cardiac disease that require cardiac transplant at an early age and may be coupled with arrhythmias and conduction system abnormalities. Variants across exon 4 through 8 have been noted to cause muscular dystrophy related symptoms together with fat distribution abnormalities. In a retrospective evaluation of 12 pediatric FPLD2 patients, although all patients had the same LMNA variant p.(R482W), there were marked differences in the severity of the phenotype. Despite the absence of comorbidities in patients under the age of ten, the earliest age of onset of diabetes in the cohort was 12, and the earliest age of onset of hepatic steatosis was observed to be 10 ( 110 ). LMNA gene pathogenic variants are also involved in the pathogenesis of progeroid disorders including Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome (HGPS), mandibuloacral dysplasia, and atypical progeroid syndrome (APS). FAMILIAL PARTIAL LIPODYSTROPHY TYPE 3 (FPLD3) FPLD3 is caused by pathogenic variants in the PPARG gene, a key regulator of adipocyte differentiation. Patients with FPLD3 usually show milder fat loss; and there is no accumulation of adipose tissue in the face and neck ( Fig.11 ); however, they manifest metabolic complications at a similar rate and severity to those with FPLD2 ( 104 , 111 - 115 ). Even more, in a retrospective analysis, FPLD3 patients exhibited a notably greater prevalence of hypertriglyceridemia and diabetes, along with elevated levels of median serum triglycerides and mean HbA1c, compared to FPLD2 patients ( 116 ). Figure 11. FPLD3. Moderate partial subcutaneous adipose tissue loss in a patient with FPLD3 (11A-C). FAMILIAL PARTIAL LIPODYSTROPHY TYPE 4 (FPLD4) FPLD4 is caused by pathogenic variants in the PLIN1 gene encoding perilipin 1, which is an essential lipid droplet
