Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


a patient with FPLD3 (11A-C). FAMILIAL PARTIAL LIPODYSTROPHY TYPE 4 (FPLD4) FPLD4 is caused by pathogenic variants in the PLIN1 gene encoding perilipin 1, which is an essential lipid droplet coat protein ( 117 ). Although frameshift mutations in PLIN1 are known to cause partial lipodystrophy, a recent comprehensive study suggests that null variants in the PLIN1 gene are not associated with the formation of lipodystrophy ( 118 ). Perilipin plays a key role in coordinating access of lipases to the core triacylglycerol. It is characterized by the loss of adipose tissue which is most striking in the lower limbs and femorogluteal depot, severe insulin resistance, diabetes, hypertriglyceridemia, and hepatic steatosis ( 119 - 121 ). FAMILIAL PARTIAL LIPODYSTROPHY TYPE 5 (FPLD5) FPLD5 is an autosomal recessive syndrome caused by pathogenic variants in the CIDEC gene. It is characterized by partial lipodystrophy, acanthosis nigricans, severe insulin resistance leading to diabetes, and hepatic steatosis. The CIDEC gene is located on chromosome 3 (3p25.3) and encodes the CIDEC protein, which is expressed in the lipid droplets. Pathogenic variants of the CIDEC gene are postulated to result in the loss of ability of lipid droplets to store fat ( 122 ). FAMILIAL PARTIAL LIPODYSTROPHY TYPE 6 (FPLD6) FPLD type 6 is caused by pathogenic variants in the LIPE (lipase E, hormone sensitive type) gene which has an autosomal recessive inheritance ( 123 ). This FPLD subtype is characterized by late-onset partial fat loss from the lower extremities and also multiple symmetric lipomatosis and progressive distal symmetric myopathy ( 123 , 124 ). Hormone sensitive lipase is the predominant regulator of lipolysis from adipocytes. Pathogenic variants in the LIPE gene appear to result in impaired lipolysis which may induce lipomatosis and partial fat loss at the same time that is associated with hypertriglyceridemia, hepatic steatosis, and insulin resistant diabetes ( 124 ). NEWER AND EMERGING GENES ASSOCIATED WITH FAMILIAL PARTIAL LIPODYSTROPHY FPLD has also been reported to be caused by pathogenic variants in the AKT2 gene ( 125 ). AKT is a serine/threonine protein kinase, which is involved in cell signaling/growth, glycogen synthesis, and insulin-stimulated glucose transport. Lipodystrophy in patients with AKT2 mutations is thought to be due to defective adipocyte differentiation and post-receptor insulin signaling ( 126 ). Additional variants may be found through extensive sequencing platforms of ongoing studies such as UK Biobank ( 127 ), RADIANT ( 128 ) or All
