Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


insulin signaling ( 126 ). Additional variants may be found through extensive sequencing platforms of ongoing studies such as UK Biobank ( 127 ), RADIANT ( 128 ) or All of Us ( 129 ) studies. Exome sequencing has identified a heterozygous variant in the adrenoceptor α 2A ( ADRA2A ) gene, which encodes the main presynaptic inhibitory feedback G protein–coupled receptor regulating norepinephrine release, in an African-American pedigree with atypical FPLD ( 130 ), which needs to be confirmed in additional pedigrees and to date, no additional cases have been reported with similar phenotypes. Progeroid Syndromes and Lipodystrophy Mandibuloacral Dysplasia (MAD) is a rare progeroid syndrome which manifests with craniofacial, skeletal and cutaneous abnormalities and lipodystrophy ( Fig.12 ) ( 131 ). The clinical manifestations present gradually over time, most commonly during childhood. There are two types of MAD currently recognized. Mandibuloacral dysplasia type A (MADA) is characterized by the loss of subcutaneous fat from the extremities along with normal or excessive fat in the face and the neck. Mandibuloacral dysplasia type B manifests with a more generalized loss of subcutaneous fat ( 131 - 134 ). Figure 12. Mandibuloacral Dysplasia. Hypoplasia of the mandible in a patient with Mandibuloacral Dysplasia. MADA is caused by mutations in the LMNA gene which results in the accumulation of prelamin A protein ( 135 ). This, in return disrupts the interaction between nuclear lamina and chromatin ( 134 - 136 ). Compound heterozygous pathogenic variants in the zinc metalloproteinase ( ZMPSTE24 ) gene have been reported to cause MADB associated lipodystrophy ( 137 , 138 ). ZMPSTE24 is essential in the post-translational proteolytic cleavage of carboxy terminal residues of farnesylated prelamin A to form mature lamin A and vimentin processing ( 137 , 139 , 140 ). In addition, homozygous mutation in the MTX2 gene causes mandibuloacral dysplasia progeroid syndrome (MDPS), an autosomal recessive severe laminopathy-like disorder characterized by mandibular recession, clavicular hypoplasia and acroosteolysis, progeroid appearance and loss of subcutaneous fat ( 141 ). MDP (mandibular hypoplasia, deafness and progeroid features syndrome) has been reported to be caused by pathogenic variants of the POLD1 gene that encodes catalytic subunit of DNA polymerase δ which play an essential role in the lagging-strand DNA synthesis during DNA replication ( 142 ). In addition to progressive lipodystrophy and severe insulin resistance, patients with MDP suffer from mandibular hypoplasia, sensorineural deafness, progeroid features, scleroderma and
