Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


DNA synthesis during DNA replication ( 142 ). In addition to progressive lipodystrophy and severe insulin resistance, patients with MDP suffer from mandibular hypoplasia, sensorineural deafness, progeroid features, scleroderma and skin telangiectasia, ligament contractures, reduced mass of limb muscles, hypogonadism and undescended testes in males ( 142 - 145 ). We recently observed a mother daughter pair with a different POLD1 variant near the carboxyl terminal of the protein at a very highly conserved residue ( Fig.13 ). Figure 13. Partial Lipodystrophy in a Patient with POLD1 Variant. Biallelic WRN null mutations linked to partial lipodystrophy with severe insulin resistance in adult progeria Werner syndrome ( Fig.14 ) ( 146 ). The WRN gene encodes a RecQ DNA helicase which plays a critical role in repairing damaged DNA ( 147 ). An unusual Werner syndrome with the absence of progeroid findings, early-onset diabetes, severe dyslipidemia, and hepatic fibrosis has been reported in a patient with partial lipodystrophy who had a novel variant in the WRN gene ( 148 ). Figure 14. Werner Syndrome. Fibrillin-1 ( FBN1 ) gene pathogenic variants are found in more than 90% of patients with Marfan syndrome ( 149 ). Pathogenic variants in the penultimate exon of FBN1 have been reported to be associated with a distinct phenotype of generalized lipodystrophy that share some clinical features with neonatal progeroid syndrome (Wiedemann–Rautenstrauch syndrome), a very severe disorder with only a few patients described who could reach their late childhood ( 150 - 152 ). Although these patients have marfanoid/progeroid appearance, skeletal features, dilated aortic bulb, bilateral subluxation of the lens, myopia in addition to the severe generalized lipodystrophy, no significant metabolic abnormality caused by the lack of adipose tissue has been reported ( 150 , 151 , 153 ). Pathogenic variants in BANF1 have been reported to be associated with progeroid features, growth retardation, decreased subcutaneous fat, thin limbs, and stiff joints. This disease is also called Néstor-Guillermo progeria syndrome (NGPS) ( 154 ). Heterozygous pathogenic variants in KCNJ6 ( GIRK2 ), which encodes an inwardly rectifying potassium channel, cause Keppen-Lubinsky syndrome that is characterized by severe developmental delay and intellectual disability, microcephaly, large prominent eyes, an open mouth, progeroid appearance, and generalized lipodystrophy ( 155 ). Pathogenic variants of the Spartan ( SPRTN ) gene, which encodes a protein that is essential in the maintenance of genomic stability, have reported to be associated progeroid features, lipodystrophy
