Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


Pathogenic variants of the Spartan ( SPRTN ) gene, which encodes a protein that is essential in the maintenance of genomic stability, have reported to be associated progeroid features, lipodystrophy and hepatocellular carcinoma ( 156 ). Pathogenic variants in the ALDH18A1 gene, which encodes pyrroline-5-carboxylate-synthetase, a mitochondrial enzyme important in ornithine biosynthesis, cause Cutis Laxa Autosomal Dominant 3 syndrome. This syndrome is characterized by intellectual disability, hypotonia, retinal abnormalities, craniofacial dysmorphism, joint laxity, and abnormal fat distribution ( 34 , 157 ). Several other genes associated with progeroid lipodystrophy are listed in Table 3 . Complex Syndromes and Their Genes Associated with Lipodystrophy Pathogenic variants in the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, regulatory subunit 1 ( PIK3R1 ), which mediates insulin’s metabolic actions, have been reported in patients with SHORT syndrome (short stature, joint hyperextensibility, ocular depression, Rieger anomaly, and teething delay) that is associated with lipodystrophy in many patients ( 158 , 159 ). It has also been reported that patients with C-terminal PIK3R1 pathogenic variants exhibit severe insulin resistance but normolipidemia and no hepatic steatosis ( 160 ). Pathogenic variants in the proteasome subunit, beta-type, 8 ( PSMB8 ) gene, which encodes a catalytic subunit of the 20S immunoproteasomes called β5i, has been linked to an autosomal-recessive autoinflammatory syndrome characterized by joint contractures, muscle atrophy, microcytic anemia, and panniculitis-induced lipodystrophy (JMP syndrome) ( 161 - 163 ). CANDLE syndrome is another rare autoinflammatory syndrome characterized by chronic atypical neutrophilic dermatitis, recurrent fever, and partial loss of adipose tissue from the upper limbs and face ( 164 ). An eponym for the syndrome was proposed as Nakajo–Nishimura syndrome ( 165 , 166 ). Homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations in the gene PSMB8 have been reported in patients with CANDLE syndrome ( 167 , 168 ). Two families with AREDYLD syndrome that is characterized by acrorenal field defect, ectodermal dysplasia, generalized lipodystrophy, and multiple abnormalities have been reported ( 169 , 170 ). The genetic basis of this very rare syndrome is still unknown. Lipomatosis Syndromes In studies conducted in 2016-2018, a pathogenic variant in the MFN2 gene that encodes mitofusin 2, a membrane-bound mediator of mitochondrial membrane fusion and inter-organelle communication, have been reported to be associated with partial lipodystrophy, upper body adipose hyperplasia, and suppression of leptin expression ( 171 ) ( Fig.15 ). MFN2 gene-related Multiple Symmetric Lipomatosis (MSL) is an unusual type of lipodystrophy that includes both lipomatous masses
