Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


adipose hyperplasia, and suppression of leptin expression ( 171 ) ( Fig.15 ). MFN2 gene-related Multiple Symmetric Lipomatosis (MSL) is an unusual type of lipodystrophy that includes both lipomatous masses and lipoatrophy ( 172 ). In these cases , one may observe various indicators, including insulin resistance, diabetes, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, dyslipidemia, peripheral neuropathy, autonomic neuropathy, and extremely low leptin and adiponectin levels. Fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21) serum levels were found to be remarkably higher in these cases ( 173 ). Of note, there are additional etiologies linked to the development of lipomatosis, with or without lipodystrophy. Figure 15. Disease progression in a patient with a pathogenic variant in the MFN2 gene (15A-D). Acquired Partial Lipodystrophy Acquired partial lipodystrophy (APL) is characterized by fat loss typically starting in childhood or early adulthood. Loss of adipose tissue first manifests in the face and gradually progresses to the upper extremities, thorax, and upper abdomen symmetrically. It typically proceeds in a cephalocaudal fashion but spares the lower extremities ( Fig.16 ). There might be accumulation of fat in the lower abdomen, gluteal region, and lower extremities. Figure 16. APL. Typical cephalocaudal adipose tissue loss pattern in two patients with APL (16A-D). Note preservation of fat depots below the waist line. Although the etiology of APL is still unknown, some patients may have coinciding autoimmune conditions. Systemic lupus erythematosus and dermatomyositis/polymyositis are among the most frequently associated auto-immune diseases ( 174 ). In recent years, cases of APL associated with hematopoietic stem cell transplantation and total body irradiation have also been described. These patients are thought to constitute a subset of APL ( 175 , 176 ). APL has been associated with abnormalities of the alternative complement pathway that may cause membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis (MPGN) ( 177 ). Subsequent chronic renal disease constitutes the major cause of morbidity in these patients. It has been suggested that C3-nephritic factor might be the cause for the lysis of adipocytes expressing factor D, although there is no solid evidence supporting this hypothesis ( 178 ). A comprehensive review of renal complications in lipodystrophy by the Turkish Lipodystrophy Study Group verified low complement C3 levels in more than 45% of APL patients ( 179 , 180 ). Rare variants in LMNB2 were previously reported in five patients with APL, but two of four variants were also present in normal controls ( 181 ). In addition, subcutaneous loss
