Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


Rare variants in LMNB2 were previously reported in five patients with APL, but two of four variants were also present in normal controls ( 181 ). In addition, subcutaneous loss of fat from the legs and the gluteal region, presence of diabetes, type IV and V hyperlipoproteinemias were atypical presentations in these patients ( 181 ). Metabolic complications are less common compared to other types of lipodystrophy syndromes ( 4 ). Not all patients develop insulin resistance, diabetes, or hypertriglyceridemia. Leptin levels vary from hypoleptinemia to normal range ( 32 , 174 ). However, patients may develop metabolic abnormalities such as diabetes, hypertriglyceridemia, low HDL cholesterol levels, and hepatic steatosis in later stages of the disorder. In addition, several patients with APL have been reported to develop diabetes or other metabolic abnormalities at a relatively young age, which are apparently associated with insulin resistance ( 182 ). It is also known that metabolic complications such as hepatic steatosis, poorly controlled diabetes, and pancreatitis are severe in a group of APL patients who are thought to have advanced fat loss ( 180 ). Thus, patients with APL should also be followed for metabolic abnormalities, as is done for other subtypes of lipodystrophy. ANIMAL MODELS OF LIPODYSTROPHY Numerous animal models of lipodystrophy have shown that adipose tissue dysfunction triggers the development of severe insulin resistance, which is associated with metabolic abnormalities and end-organ complications as mentioned above and shown in Fig.1 . Extensive and authoritative reviews of these studies can be found in articles by Drs. David B. Savage ( 183 ) and by Xavier Prieur ( 121 ). The introduction of these animal models has allowed researchers to explore the fundamental characteristics of lipodystrophy and insulin resistance and allowed studies of the effects of different treatment approaches. Regardless of the strategy used, ablation of white adipose tissue led to the development of insulin resistance, hypertriglyceridemia, and hepatic steatosis (sometimes 6-fold elevation in total liver weight). In now classical experiments of Reitman and colleagues, fat transplantation from littermates rescued metabolic derangements in the famous A-ZIP mice ( 184 - 186 ). Dr. Beutler’s group identified kelch repeat and BTB (POZ) domain containing 2 (KBTBD2) deficiency as a cause of lipodystrophy associated with insulin resistance and diabetes and they also showed that transplantation of wild-type adipose tissue rescued diabetes and the hepatic steatosis phenotypes of Kbtbd2 −/− mice ( 187 ). The administration
