Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


insulin resistance and diabetes and they also showed that transplantation of wild-type adipose tissue rescued diabetes and the hepatic steatosis phenotypes of Kbtbd2 −/− mice ( 187 ). The administration of leptin into aP2–SREBP-1c transgenic mice from the Brown and Goldstein laboratory resulted in dramatic benefits in glycemic parameters, insulin action, and hepatic steatosis, which could not be explained by its effect on food intake alone, providing the premise to undertake leptin replacement in human patients ( 188 ). What was also striking was that if fat from the leptin deficient obese mice was transplanted into littermates of the A-ZIP mice, the metabolic rescue was far less effective, suggesting that leptin played an important role in the regulation of metabolism in lipodystrophy in rodents ( 189 ). The replacement of deficient leptin in a small but severely affected cohort of human patients with lipodystrophy with recombinant human leptin (metreleptin) was first reported in 2002 and brought further attention to lipodystrophy research ( 190 ). Longer-term studies subsequently confirmed the role of metreleptin therapy in lipodystrophy syndromes especially in the most severe forms ( 32 , 41 , 42 ). Recent Animal Models Advancing Our Understanding of Lipodystrophy and Fat Dysfunction While we are not intending to provide a comprehensive review of all animal models generated recently, we selected a few to highlight recent advances in this field. A study by Tapia et al.'s ( 191 ) showed that a generalized lipodystrophy gene and a critical enzyme in triglyceride synthesis AGPAT2 is essential for the expression of critical mitochondrial proteins. In this study, genes involved in the type-1 interferon response were overexpressed in differentiated Agpat2 −/− adipocytes, and this condition could be associated with their defective mitochondria. They also showed that differentiated Agpat2 −/− brown adipocytes have a lower proportion of lipid-laden cells, Adiponectin and Perilipin1 synthesis, indicating that these cells were able to initiate brown adipogenesis but could not carry it to further stages ( 191 ). Interestingly, another study of Agpat2 null mice, demonstrated the absence of caveolae in adipocytes lacking AGPAT2 , which hints at a possible mechanistic connection between different Congenital Generalized Lipodystrophy (CGL) types ( 121 , 192 , 193 ). The Macdougald lab and our group collaboratively developed adipocyte specific knock out of LMNA gene which recapitulates most of the features of human FPLD2 ( 194 ). Loss of adipocyte-specific lamin A/C in mice (Lmna
