Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


group collaboratively developed adipocyte specific knock out of LMNA gene which recapitulates most of the features of human FPLD2 ( 194 ). Loss of adipocyte-specific lamin A/C in mice (Lmna ADKO ) caused a significant reduction in the weight of posterior subcutaneous white adipose tissue (WAT), gonadal WAT, pericardial WAT, renal WAT, and retroperitoneal WAT, as well as markedly reduced circulating adiponectin and leptin levels in both sexes. Hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinemia, liver enlargement, and ectopic fat accumulation in the liver were also noted in these mice under a high-fat diet, consistent with the clinical presentation of FPLD2 ( 194 ). A novel mouse model was generated to explore whether maintaining intact BSCL2 expression in the liver prevents the onset of metabolic disorders in mice with specific BSCL2 deficiency in adipose tissue. BSCL2 was simultaneously targeted for ablation in adipose tissue and hepatocytes. It was observed that liver-specific seipin deficiency did not result in hepatosteatosis and insulin resistance. These results suggest that most of the metabolic pathophysiology is driven by the function of BSCL2 outside of hepatocytes, and likely in adipose tissue ( 195 ). In an animal model created to elucidate the molecular mechanisms of lipomatosis and lipodystrophy associated with the MFN2 gene, which encodes an outer membrane GTPase required for mitochondrial fusion ( 196 ), no change in mitochondrial oxidative capacity was observed in homozygous Mfn2 R707W/R707W mice ( 197 ). Although the triggering of a cellular integrated stress response and selective impairment in mitochondrial morphology and function were detected in adipose tissues, no significant changes in glucose and lipid metabolism were observed in homozygous mice, unlike humans. Interestingly, leptin and adiponectin levels were low in these mice ( 197 ). A new animal model study showed that a novel R133L heterozygous mutation in the LMNA gene causes signs of aging, such as impaired mitochondrial functions, decreased lipid storage capacity in subcutaneous adipose tissue, as well as metabolic disorders such as insulin resistance and ectopic lipid accumulation. Lmna R133L/+ mice exhibited findings consistent with lipodystrophy, such as a reduction in epididymal white adipose tissue (eWAT) mass, as well as smaller adipocytes and upregulated inflammation genes in the inguinal subcutaneous white adipose tissue (iWAT) ( 198 ). Furthermore, the importance of the lipid kinase phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3 (PIK3C3) in the function of white adipose tissues (WATs) and brown adipose tissues (BATs) has been demonstrated using adipocyte-specific Pik3c3 knock-out
