Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


the lipid kinase phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3 (PIK3C3) in the function of white adipose tissues (WATs) and brown adipose tissues (BATs) has been demonstrated using adipocyte-specific Pik3c3 knock-out model. Deletion of PIK3C3 has been linked to lipodystrophy due to impaired adipocyte differentiation, autophagy, and thermogenesis mechanisms ( 199 ). We have also covered recent animal models of novel gene therapies under a new heading: Emerging Therapeutic Technologies and Gene Replacement Therapy Approaches. TREATMENT Currently, treatment modalities are restricted to ameliorating or preventing the comorbidities of the lipodystrophic syndromes. There is no cure for these syndromes. For the metabolic disturbances, lifestyle modification (diet and exercise as needed), metformin, and fibrates (and/or statins) are generally required. Insulin or other antidiabetics (e.g., metformin, thiazolidinediones) can also be used if needed. Metreleptin, a leptin analog, is indicated as an adjunct to diet as replacement therapy to treat the complications of leptin deficiency in patients with generalized lipodystrophy. Lifestyle Modification There is limited knowledge on the effectiveness of diet and exercise in the management of metabolic disturbances in patients with lipodystrophy. In general, a balanced macronutrient composition is recommended. In patients with severe hypertriglyceridemia, a balanced low- fat diet (<15% of daily caloric intake) is appropriate. To control diabetes, increased physical activity and carbohydrate restriction are advised. Dietary fiber intake and foods that are rich in omega-3 fatty acids are suggested ( 3 ). Most patients with lipodystrophy are encouraged to be physically active. In patients with cardiomyopathy and cardiac arrhythmias strenuous exercise should be avoided. Patients with CGL4 should avoid exercise as they may develop exercise-induced ventricular arrhythmias ( 75 , 79 ). Contact sports are not advised to patients with severe hepatosplenomegaly and CGL patients presenting with lytic bone lesions. Patients should abstain from drinking alcohol due to the risk of developing acute pancreatitis and metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH). Patients should also be advised to avoid smoking and maintain an optimal blood pressure to decrease the risk of cardiovascular disease. Insulin Resistance In patients presenting with lipodystrophy and diabetes, both metformin and thiazolidinediones are somewhat effective to treat hyperglycemia and hyperlipidemia ( 200 - 204 ). Metformin is used as the first-line agent in insulin resistant diabetes. Thiazolidinediones may improve the metabolic profile in partial lipodystrophy syndromes ( 204 ). The very first thiazolidinedione to be approved in the United States troglitazone actually worked remarkably well in lowering both HbA1c and
