Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


metabolic profile in partial lipodystrophy syndromes ( 204 ). The very first thiazolidinedione to be approved in the United States troglitazone actually worked remarkably well in lowering both HbA1c and triglyceride levels in a cohort of patients with predominantly partial lipodystrophy syndromes. However, data on the currently approved thiazolidinediones are limited and contradictory ( 202 , 205 , 206 ). Thiazolidinediones should be considered in the management of diabetes in patients with partial lipodystrophy, however they should not be routinely used in generalized lipodystrophy as their efficacy has not been studied ( 3 , 204 ). Insulin is usually needed in very high doses and concentrated forms, such as U-500. Patients with extreme insulin resistance, however, may not respond to concentrated insulin. Administration of insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) has been shown to be effective in maintaining glycemic control and insulin resistance in short-term studies, as well as in type 2 diabetes ( 207 - 209 ). A retrospective study found that administration of sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors resulted in a 0.8% drop in HbA1c levels after one year in individuals with partial lipodystrophy. Additionally, SGLT-2 inhibitors led to a significant decrease in both systolic and diastolic blood pressure ( 210 ). In clinical practice, it should be considered that combination therapy with metreleptin and SGLT2 inhibitors may contribute to prognosis by improving insulin resistance in adipose tissue and reducing the risk of cardiovascular events ( 211 ). Many other hypoglycemic agents have been used in lipodystrophy, but their efficacy has not been studied ( 3 ). Recently we published a retrospective review of GLP-1 agonist use in FPLD syndromes showing substantial improvement in glucose control and body weight ( 212 ). Dual incretin therapeutic tirzepatide is postulated to have even more efficacy due to the potential impact of GIP agonism and potentially improving inflammation. Dyslipidemia Statins are normally used as first-line agents to treat hypercholesterolemia but patients with FPLD have low tolerance to statins. Rosuvastatin and pravastatin have been proven to reduce total LDL cholesterol levels ( 213 , 214 ). Statins are used with caution to prevent side effects such as myopathy and hepatotoxicity. Along with diet, fibrates and fish oil rich in omega-3 fatty acids, should be prescribed for serum triglyceride levels >500 mg/dL and may be considered for triglycerides >200 mg/dL. Combining fibrates with statins has proved to be effective in dyslipidemia; however, there is an
