Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


prescribed for serum triglyceride levels >500 mg/dL and may be considered for triglycerides >200 mg/dL. Combining fibrates with statins has proved to be effective in dyslipidemia; however, there is an increased risk for muscle toxicity. Therapeutic apheresis can be used in extreme hypertriglyceridemia to prevent recurrent episodes of acute pancreatitis in acutely life-threatening situations ( 190 ). Cosmetic Treatment Cosmetic correction of lipoatrophy and fat excess is associated with improved quality of life in patients with lipodystrophy. Autologous adipose tissue transplantation, facial reconstruction with free flaps and silicone or other implants have been used in lipoatrophic areas. In addition, liposuction or surgical excision is used for removal of unwanted excess fat from body parts such as the chin, buffalo hump and vulvar region. Bariatric Surgery Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass Surgery (RYGB) is associated with effective weight loss and resolution of metabolic comorbidities in patients with obesity ( 215 ). RYGB was used with success in several patients with FPLD1 and with FPLD2 ( 216 - 218 ). RYGB resulted in weight loss and significant improvements in metabolic parameters in patients with FPLD1 that allowed patients to stop using insulin ( 216 ). FPLD2 patients also benefited from RYBG. Substantial improvements in metabolic parameters and a significant weight loss were reported after the surgery ( 218 , 219 ). Leptin A large group of lipodystrophy patients present with low leptin levels. Metreleptin (r-metHuLeptin) is an analog of human leptin made through recombinant DNA technology. It has been tested in congenital and acquired forms of lipodystrophy and has been shown to ameliorate the metabolic derangements ( 43 , 190 ). Leptin replacement therapy is approved in Japan as a therapy indicated specifically for the treatment of diabetes and/or hypertriglyceridemia in patients with congenital or acquired lipodystrophy. In the United States, metreleptin, now called MYALEPT, has been approved by the FDA in 2014 for use in patients with congenital generalized or acquired generalized lipodystrophy for the treatment of complications of leptin deficiency as an adjunct to diet and lifestyle modifications. There is no lower age limit for initiation of Myalept nor a specific degree of metabolic abnormality so long as the diagnosis of generalized lipodystrophy can be substantiated. However, it is not approved for use in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-related lipodystrophy, or in patients with metabolic diseases such as diabetes and hypertriglyceridemia, or partial lipodystrophy in the US. Metreleptin is an approved treatment for
