Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


use in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-related lipodystrophy, or in patients with metabolic diseases such as diabetes and hypertriglyceridemia, or partial lipodystrophy in the US. Metreleptin is an approved treatment for generalized lipodystrophy (GL) and partial lipodystrophy (PL) in the European Union (EU), United Kingdom (UK), Canada, and Brazil. However, there is an age limit of ≥ 2 years for GL. The approval for PL states that patients with confirmed PL can initiate treatment if they are aged ≥ 12 years and only when standard treatments have not achieved adequate metabolic control. Based on this indication, in the EU, UK, Canada, Brazil, and Japan, patients with PL who do not respond to available diabetes and lipid-lowering agents can be treated with recombinant leptin therapy. It is still controversial whether basal endogenous leptin levels can be used to predict response to metreleptin treatment in lipodystrophy patients. However, a recent study revealed that baseline endogenous leptin levels are poor predictors for response to metreleptin therapy among individuals with partial lipodystrophy ( 220 ). The clinical effects of leptin treatment in patients with lipodystrophy are summarized below. APPETITE Metreleptin decreases hyperphagia, leading to weight loss that usually stabilize with long-term treatment ( 190 , 221 - 223 ). This effect can be noted by the patients right after the treatment with metreleptin. Functional MRI studies combined with behavioral assessments showed that metreleptin treatment is associated with long-term improvements of hedonic and homeostatic central nervous networks regulating appetite and food intake ( 224 - 226 ). Food related neural activity and development of satiety were effectively restored by leptin replacement in lipodystrophy ( 227 ). METABOLIC PARAMETERS Metabolic changes become evident quickly within days to weeks of treatment with metreleptin. Metreleptin therapy has been shown to improve fasting plasma glucose levels starting from the first week. In the first set of patients with lipodystrophy treated with metreleptin, four months of therapy with metreleptin decreased average triglyceride levels by 60%. The absolute decrease in HbA1c was 1.9% among patients with diabetes. Liver volume reduced by an average of 28% and led to the discontinuation of or a large reduction in antidiabetic therapy ( 190 ). In the long term, more than three-fourths of patients with GL treated with metreleptin discontinued concomitant treatments, including insulin and oral antidiabetics ( 228 ). In clinical studies, metreleptin led to significant improvements in patients with GL. After 1 year of
