Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


beta cell function in patients with lipodystrophy ( 231 ). On the contrary, it has been reported that metreleptin therapy improves insulin secretion in the setting of diabetes ( 232 ). A prospective study observed that metreleptin administration for two weeks suppressed basal gluconeogenesis (GNG) by reducing carbon sources for GNG and increasing insulin-mediated suppression of GNG. Peripheral insulin sensitivity increased significantly throughout the 6-month follow-up of these patients ( 233 ). Apolipoprotein C-III and angiopoietin-like protein 8 (ANGPTL8), recognized as inhibitors of lipoprotein lipase, play a role in modulating hypertriglyceridemia. A notable reduction of these hepatokine plasma concentrations is observed, especially after six months of metreleptin treatment ( 234 ). While about a 60% decrease in TG values was detected in 1-year follow-up in GL patients using concomitant lipid-lowering medications, a 30% decrease was observed in patients with partial lipodystrophy. These reductions were less in individuals who did not take concomitant medication ( 235 ). In a real world study from France, during a follow-up period of more than 15 months, TG levels decreased by approximately 150 mg/dL in patients with generalized lipodystrophy ( 236 ). It should be noted that acute withdrawal of metreleptin therapy might result in acute pancreatitis episodes ( 237 , 238 ). Metreleptin also decreased total cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol levels ( 237 , 239 ). But did not alter HDL cholesterol levels ( 236 , 237 , 239 ). As we have noted, the beneficial effect of metreleptin on glycemic and lipid measures in generalized lipodystrophy are clear and usually quite remarkable. Although the response is variable in patients with partial lipodystrophy and it is not approved for this indication in the US, studies have shown that some patients can benefit from metreleptin treatment. A selected cohort of partial lipodystrophy patients with moderately to severely low leptin and significant baseline metabolic abnormalities is more likely to benefit from metreleptin therapy ( 13 , 235 , 236 , 240 - 242 ). Recent studies confirm that most partial lipodystrophy patients with inadequate metabolic control also respond to metreleptin treatment ( 235 , 236 ). Furthermore, when comparing the metabolic responses to metreleptin treatment of patients with PPARG and LMNA pathogenic variants in the FPLD group, both groups reported remarkable and similar reductions in HbA1c, insulin dose, and triglyceride levels after 12 months of treatment ( 243 ). However, the real-life study from France showed that
