Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


vagal effect ( 250 ) and decreases de novo lipogenesis ( 251 ). These observations suggest that the effect of metreleptin on hepatic steatosis can be somewhat blunted when the autonomic innervation of the liver is not intact. However, it should be noted that the liver disease can still benefit from improving metabolic profile and hepatic steatosis can diminish as a result of controlled de novo lipogenesis after improved insulin sensitivity with leptin replacement. To support this view, metreleptin has also been reported to result in rapid clearance of fat from the liver and normalization of liver histology in an AGL patient with recurrence of MASLD in the first few months of liver transplantation ( 252 ). Figure 17. Liver Histology Before and After Metreleptin. Liver histology shows regression of hepatic steatosis and ballooning injury after metreleptin treatment (left before metreleptin and right 4 months on metreleptin treatment, Hematoxylin and eosin staining; magnification 200X). KIDNEYS Patients with lipodystrophy may develop proteinuric kidney disease. Metreleptin decreases proteinuria in most patients ( 223 , 253 ). The reduction in proteinuria coincided with improvement in hyperfiltration in 11 of 15 patients treated with metreleptin. However, four patients had worsening renal function. Hence, renal functions should be closely monitored during metreleptin therapy ( 253 ). In further studies, metreleptin significantly reduced proteinuria in patients with GL ( 254 ). CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM AND OVERALL SURVIVAL A study conducted in lipodystrophic mice showed that metreleptin treatment inhibited proatherosclerotic cytokine growth/differentiation factor 15 (GDF15) and reduced macrophage accumulation in atherosclerotic lesions via endothelial to mesenchymal transition. Thus, the positive effect of leptin on the endothelium by reducing inflammation has been reported ( 255 ). Metreleptin treatment provides a significant improvement in serum levels of atherogenic lipoproteins, which are known to be associated with increased cardiovascular disease risk ( 256 ). A potential increase in cardiovascular risk was detected in a prospective coronary calcium score (CCS) evaluation in 19 individuals diagnosed with CGL, although not sufficiently powered, this study did not report a significant change after metreleptin in CCS score ( 257 ). Another recent study, on the other hand, reported an approximately 30% regression in left ventricular hypertrophy and an improvement in septal e' velocity in the GL patients after leptin treatment ( 258 ). Cardiovascular problems are a significant risk of mortality in lipodystrophy patients. Our large retrospective evaluation from a large multicenter dataset, found that
