Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


GL patients after leptin treatment ( 258 ). Cardiovascular problems are a significant risk of mortality in lipodystrophy patients. Our large retrospective evaluation from a large multicenter dataset, found that after adjusting covariates such as lipodystrophy diagnosis, triglyceride levels, elevated HbA1c, ≥1 episode of pancreatitis, and abnormalities in the heart or kidneys, metreleptin treatment resulted in a mortality reduction of over 60% ( 259 ). CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM AND OTHER EFFECTS A functional MRI study revealed that leptin may induce alterations in brain activity in the subgenual area (Brodmann area 25), a region not strictly linked to eating behavior, known for its connections to the reward network. This suggests that leptin may also affect brain regions other than eating behavior ( 260 ). Another observational study of ten individuals with partial lipodystrophy who were naïve to metreleptin found a rapid decline in Beck's depression inventory score one week after metreleptin therapy. In the first 3-month follow-up of the individuals, a significant improvement was observed compared to their initial scores. Although this shows that metreleptin treatment may have an antidepressant effect, the findings need to be supported by long-term clinical studies ( 261 ). Metreleptin treatment also significantly contributes to improving indirect findings related to quality of life, such as hyperphagia, inability to go to work/school, and deterioration in physical appearance ( 262 ). REPRODUCTIVE SYSTEM In females, metreleptin was found to normalize gonadotropin secretion. It led to normal progression of puberty, normalized menstrual cycles, and improved fertility ( 223 , 263 - 265 ). Leptin replacement improved low estradiol levels and corrected the attenuated luteinizing hormone (LH) response to luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) in young women with lipodystrophy and leptin deficiency ( 263 ). One-year treatment with metreleptin resulted a significant decrease in testosterone and sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) levels in lipodystrophic women with PCOS ( 266 ). Several pregnancies have occurred in patients with lipodystrophy while they were on metreleptin without any evidence for teratogenicity ( 47 , 267 ), although it has not been approved for use in pregnancy. Leptin replacement was associated with a small increase (clinically non-significant) in serum testosterone and SHBG in males. No change was observed in serum LH response to LHRH ( 264 ). No impact of leptin therapy on bone mineral density and content and bone metabolism has been reported in both sexes ( 244 , 268 , 269 ) .
