Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


264 ). No impact of leptin therapy on bone mineral density and content and bone metabolism has been reported in both sexes ( 244 , 268 , 269 ) . ADVERSE EFFECTS Majority of patients treated with metreleptin in clinical studies experienced ≥1 treatment-emergent adverse event, which mainly were mild-to-moderate in severity ( 228 , 229 ). The most common side effects were hypoglycemia, nausea, decreased appetite and injection site reactions e.g. erythema and urticaria. Headache, fatigue, weight loss, and abdominal pain were also seen ( 228 ). During metreleptin treatment, iron parameters might be affected, and a decrease in ferritin levels might be observed ( 270 ). There may also be a need to make dose adjustments or cessation of concomitant treatments such as insulin, oral antidiabetics, and lipid lowering drugs after metreleptin therapy. In some cases, in vivo neutralizing antibodies to metreleptin have been reported ( 271 , 272 ) and is the main reason underlying the FDA's restriction of metreleptin use. Anti-metreleptin antibodies developed in most patients with lipodystrophy; however, neutralizing activity concurrent with worsened metabolic control has been reported only in a small number of patients treated with metreleptin ( 267 , 271 ). In addition, in the few patients who presented with neutralizing antibody formation, occurrence of severe infections such as sepsis has been reported. Two of these patients developed multiple sepsis episodes around the time of detection of neutralizing antibody ( 271 ). T-cell lymphoma has been reported in three patients with acquired generalized lipodystrophy receiving metreleptin ( 273 ). In acquired lipodystrophy patients with autoimmunity and immunodeficiency before metreleptin therapy, T-cell lymphoma development was also described ( 273 , 274 ), suggesting that lymphoma development in acquired lipodystrophy is more likely to be associated with the disease itself rather than being related to metreleptin treatment. In other cases with acquired generalized lipodystrophy, progression of kidney disease and liver disease have been observed while receiving metreleptin therapy ( 275 ). Since patients with AGL with distinct autoimmune conditions clearly benefit from metreleptin, treatment for their metabolic abnormalities should be considered in patients with AGL with close clinical follow up considering the cautionary preclinical data ( 276 , 277 ). More recently attention has been devoted to emergence of new cancers while on metreleptin therapy. Data on these parameters has been reported with the prospective, non-randomized, open-label clinical trial of metreleptin in lipodystrophy. Ten patients
