Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


devoted to emergence of new cancers while on metreleptin therapy. Data on these parameters has been reported with the prospective, non-randomized, open-label clinical trial of metreleptin in lipodystrophy. Ten patients with general lipodystrophy had neoplasm development throughout the research period. These included peripheral T-cell lymphoma, granular cell tumor, breast cancer, ovarian neoplasm, papillary thyroid cancer, and basal cell carcinoma. However, only the anaplastic large cell lymphoma case was thought to be drug-related ( 228 ). During the study period, neoplasms (e.g., adrenal adenoma, benign ovarian germ cell teratoma, schwannoma, and a nervous system neoplasm) were observed to develop in five partial lipodystrophy patients. Still, none of them were considered drug-related ( 229 ). Additionally, MEASuRE (Metreleptin Efficacy and Safety Registry), a voluntary registry that collects long-term safety and effectiveness data on metreleptin, was developed as a post-authorization requirement by the FDA and EMA. This database contains comprehensive data on long-term adverse effects and drug efficacy in lipodystrophy patients using commercially available metreleptin ( 278 ). Investigational Treatments for Lipodystrophy Since in the United States partial lipodystrophy has been without medical therapy, several companies with interesting compounds have initiated development of their products for this indication. Current and recently completed investigational treatments with registered studies in ClinicalTrials.gov are presented in Table 4 . Data on these trials will be updated as results become available. The BROADEN study which was the largest global double blinded placebo controlled study published in 2022 revealed that treatment with volanesorsen, an antisense oligonucleotide to apolipoprotein C-III, significantly reduced serum triglyceride levels by over 88% and improved hepatic steatosis in patients with FPLD by 53% from original level ( 279 , 280 ). While the exact mechanisms of how volanesorsen led to the effects observed in the FPLD population are unclear, a small scale study showed that hepatic insulin resistance concurrently improved in parallel to an increase in lipoprotein lipase (LPL) activity in a few FPLD patients treated with this drug ( 281 ).While Volanesorsen is not approved in the US due to the adverse events of systemic inflammation and thrombocytopenia, this drug has been approved for use in FPLD in Brazil under the name Waylivra, marketed by PTC Therapeutics. The same drug is also available in Canada and EU for treatment of familial hyperchylomicronemia syndrome and can be an off-label option for patients with recurrent pancreatitis and severe hypertriglyceridemia. Currently, second generation anti-sense inhibitors of ApoCIII
