Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


Canada and EU for treatment of familial hyperchylomicronemia syndrome and can be an off-label option for patients with recurrent pancreatitis and severe hypertriglyceridemia. Currently, second generation anti-sense inhibitors of ApoCIII are under development in the US for severe hypertriglyceridemia and patients with FPLD are not excluded from these studies if they meet the trial population criteria ( 282 - 284 ). We are aware of a few patients with FPLD who are in ongoing studies. A therapeutic compassionate use trial with the melanocortin-4 receptor agonist setmelanotide was conducted in a patient with atypical partial lipodystrophy, whose metabolic status continued to worsen despite the presence of neutralizing antibodies to metreleptin. The reported findings indicated that the treatment had no improving effect on the lipid profile, insulin resistance, and liver fat percentage ( 285 ). The same patient was successfully treated with Mibavademab a monoclonal leptin receptor agonist antibody and remains on long term treatment ( 286 ). The promising results obtained from this patient experience led to the development of this therapeutic as an option for patients with generalized lipodystrophy. A small-scale proof of concept study in FPLD patients was also started but very recently discontinued and results are not yet available. Treatment of 16 enrolled patients with generalized lipodystrophy over a year resulted in meaningful changes in metabolic parameters which are similar to metreleptin effects; but final completion of the study and the definitive dosing schema has not been published so far ( 287 ). Table 4. Ongoing or Recently Completed Investigational Therapies for Lipodystrophy View in own window Investigational agent Status Type of lipodystrophy Primary outcome Results Volanesorsen (anti-sense oligonucleotide to apoC-III) Completed Familial partial lipodystrophy Change in fasting triglycerides 88% reduction in triglycerides, 53% reduction in hepatic steatosis Vupanorsen (Targeting angiopoietin-like 3 “ANGPTL3”) ( 288 ) (Pfizer and Ionis announced discontinuation of vupanorsen clinical development program due to concern for increase in liver fat Familial partial lipodystrophy Reduction in fasting triglycerides and free fatty acids 59.9% reduction in triglycerides, 54.7 % reduction in ANGPTL3, 53.5% reduction in VLDL cholesterol, 41.7% reduction in free fatty acids (FFA) Obeticholic Acid (farnesoid X receptor agonist) Completed Familial partial lipodystrophy Change in liver triglycerides 6.8% reduction in liver triglycerides median value, 16.9 mg/dL reduction in serum triglycerides, 0.5 U/L reduction in serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) median value Cholic Acid (primary bile acid) Completed Various forms of lipodystrophy Reduction in liver triglyceride content
