Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


organelles, namely DNA, mitochondria, AGP (actin, Golgi, plasma membrane), and Lipid. It was observed that LipocyteProfiler was able to detect significant changes in cell profiles during white and brown adipocyte differentiation after genetic and pharmacological manipulations and transcriptional states in adipocytes. Also, profiles associated with the polygenic risk of lipodystrophy confirmed increased mitochondrial activity, reduced actin cytoskeleton remodeling, and reduced lipid accumulation capacity in subcutaneous adipocytes. This tool may shed light on a deeper insight into both known and novel mechanisms by generating cellular profiles that are specific to the processes occurring in response to polygenic metabolic events, particularly in hepatocytes and adipocytes. Analyzing deep phenotypic profiles, especially in lipocytes, can enhance our understanding of lipodystrophy pathophysiology and allow us to develop better therapies ( 291 ). Gene therapy studies conducted in recent years are an emerging and promising approach to treating various genetic lipodystrophy syndromes. A novel study shows that the in vivo embryonic re-expression of human AGPAT2 (hAGPAT2) induces adipocyte differentiation and regenerates 30%–50% of the WAT and BAT depots in Agpat2−/− mice when compared to age-matched wild-type mice. Due to this genetic reorganization in Agpat2-null mice, it was observed that the differentiation of adipocytes, specifically the metabolically active depots (SubQ, Gonadal, and BAT) and dWAT (dermal) was stimulated ( 292 ). An in vivo gene therapy study demonstrated that delivering the human BSCL2 gene using an adeno-associated virus (AAV) in seipin knockout mice resulted in the restoration of adipose tissue, and this led to a significant improvement in metabolic disease ( 293 ). Following AAV-mediated gene therapy, it has been documented that there was a reduction in serum triglyceride levels, an improvement in insulin sensitivity and glucose tolerance, and a partial enhancement in the development of visceral WAT depots in seipin knockout mice. However, a dramatic increase in circulating leptin and adiponectin levels could not be achieved. Nevertheless, this study suggests a potential therapeutic approach for treating metabolic conditions related to CGL2 and other lipodystrophy syndromes ( 293 ). Introducing a functional copy of the defective gene associated with the condition or modulating the expression of related genes to restore normal adipose tissue function holds promise for alleviating severe metabolic complications in patients with lipodystrophy. CrispR-cas editing of single nucleotide variants is also rapidly approaching clinical use in all rare diseases. However, further studies are required to move gene therapies from the experimental stage to clinical applications.
