Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment
KEYWORDS: lipodystrophy, pubmed, patients, free, article, free article, pmc, article pubmed, pmc free, partial, partial lipodystrophy, leptin, fat, generalized, diabetes


of single nucleotide variants is also rapidly approaching clinical use in all rare diseases. However, further studies are required to move gene therapies from the experimental stage to clinical applications. CONCLUSION Lipodystrophy syndromes are a group of fascinating diseases that are caused by mechanisms that disrupt predominantly adipocyte differentiation or lipid droplet formation. LMNA gene defects, the most common single gene defects leading to the development of lipodystrophy syndromes, leads to lipodystrophy possibly due to inducing adipocyte apoptosis or death, but more work is needed on this front. Regardless of the mechanism and whether the diseases present with generalized or partial fat loss, common metabolic complications include severe insulin resistance, hypertriglyceridemia, and ectopic fat deposition, especially hepatic steatosis. This common theme is recapitulated in numerous animal models as well. The diseases are typically progressive and lead to multi-organ involvement and increased mortality. Molecular advances in the understanding of disease mechanisms may lead to better and specific treatments for lipodystrophy syndromes. So far, the most exciting therapeutic development for the treatment of lipodystrophy syndromes has been the approval of leptin replacement therapy for generalized lipodystrophy in the form of metreleptin which started a new era in lipodystrophy research; leading to the launch of registries and natural history studies (e.g. the LD Lync Study-Natural History Study of Lipodystrophy Syndromes ( NCT03087253 ) ( 294 - 296 ), organization of research consortia around the world (e.g., European Consortium of Lipodystrophies (ECLip) ( 297 ) and country specific patient advocacy foundations or organizations. All these efforts will contribute to discovery of new disease forms and disease mechanisms, understanding of the natural course of lipodystrophy diseases, development of improved treatment options and possibly cures. REFERENCES 1. Chan JL, Oral EA. Clinical classification and treatment of congenital and acquired lipodystrophy. Endocr Pract. 2010;16(2):310-23. [ PubMed : 20061300 ] 2. Garg A. Clinical review#: Lipodystrophies: genetic and acquired body fat disorders. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2011;96(11):3313-25. [ PMC free article : PMC7673254 ] [ PubMed : 21865368 ] 3. Brown RJ, Araujo-Vilar D, Cheung PT, Dunger D, Garg A, Jack M, et al. The Diagnosis and Management of Lipodystrophy Syndromes: A Multi-Society Practice Guideline. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2016;101(12):4500-11. [ PMC free article : PMC5155679 ] [ PubMed : 27710244 ] 4. Handelsman Y, Oral EA, Bloomgarden ZT, Brown RJ, Chan JL, Einhorn D, et al. The clinical approach to the detection of lipodystrophy - an AACE
