Bookshelf_NBK425723
KEYWORDS: syndrome, myhre, myhre syndrome, pathogenic, individuals, variant, affected, pathogenic variant, stenosis, disease, findings, testing, genetic, age, treatment


NLM Citation: Lin AE, Brunetti-Pierri N, Lindsay ME, et al. Myhre Syndrome. 2017 Apr 13 [Updated 2024 Dec 12]. In: Adam MP, Bick S, ® Mirzaa GM, et al., editors. GeneReviews [Internet]. Seattle (WA): Bookshelf URL: Myhre Syndrome Synonym: Myhre-LAPS Syndrome 1 2 1 3 4 Created: April 13, 2017; Updated: December 12, 2024. Summary Clinical characteristics Myhre syndrome is a multisystem progressive connective tissue disorder that often results in significant complications. The highly distinctive (and often severe) findings of joint stiffness, restrictive lung and cardiovascular disease, progressive and proliferative fibrosis, and thickening of the skin usually occur spontaneously. Some proliferation such as abnormal scarring or adhesions may follow trauma, invasive medical procedures, or surgery. Effusions of the heart, airways, lungs, uterus, and peritoneum may occur and can progress to fibrosis. Most affected individuals have characteristic facial features (short palpebral fissures, deeply set eyes, maxillary underdevelopment, short philtrum, thin vermilion of the upper lip, narrow mouth, and prognathism) and developmental delay / cognitive disability, typically in the mild-to-moderate range. Neurobehavioral issues may include autism spectrum disorder (ASD), attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and/or anxiety. Although immunoglobulin (Ig) G and IgA deficiency are rare, affected individuals can experience recurrent infections (including otitis media, sinusitis, mastoiditis, or croup). Hearing loss can progress over time. Growth may be impaired in early life. Most adolescents develop obesity. Eye findings can include refractive errors, astigmatism, corectopia, and optic nerve anomalies. Gastrointestinal (GI) issues may include gastroesophageal reflux disease, constipation, and encopresis. Less commonly, stenosis of the GI tract, Hirschsprung disease, and/or metabolic dysfunction-associated liver disease may be observed. Diagnosis/testing The diagnosis of Myhre syndrome is established in a proband with characteristic clinical findings and a heterozygous (typically recurrent) pathogenic variant in SMAD4 identified by molecular genetic testing. 2 GeneReviews ® Management Treatment of manifestations: Feeding therapy for those with poor weight gain or feeding issues; gastrostomy tube placement may be required for persistent feeding issues; referral to nutrition for those who develop obesity; consideration of balloon dilation or long-term tracheostomy for those with complete or recurrent tracheal stenosis; use of smaller-size, uncuffed endotracheal tubes for anesthesia; intralesional steroids for some keloids; physical therapy for decreased range of motion of joints; orthotics for tiptoe walking; dietary management, stool softeners, prokinetics, osmotic agents, or laxatives for constipation; guarded treatment with minimal instrumentation of the GI tract for gastrointestinal stenosis. Standard treatment for orofacial clefting , velopharyngeal insufficiency, developmental delay
