Bookshelf_NBK425723
KEYWORDS: syndrome, myhre, myhre syndrome, pathogenic, individuals, variant, affected, pathogenic variant, stenosis, disease, findings, testing, genetic, age, treatment


softeners, prokinetics, osmotic agents, or laxatives for constipation; guarded treatment with minimal instrumentation of the GI tract for gastrointestinal stenosis. Standard treatment for orofacial clefting , velopharyngeal insufficiency, developmental delay / intellectual disability, cardiovascular disease including systemic/pulmonary hypertension, restrictive lung disease, sleep apnea, immunodeficiency, tethered spinal cord, frequent fractures, eye/vision issues, hearing loss, protein-losing enteropathy, liver dysfunction, diabetes mellitus, cryptorchidism, hypospadias, and epilepsy. Prevention of secondary complications: Limiting tissue trauma appears to be the single most important preventive measure. When possible, alternative noninvasive approaches should be pursued during diagnosis and management. Surveillance: At each visit, measure growth parameters; right upper arm blood pressure (if tolerated); monitor for evidence of respiratory insufficiency and obtain pulse oxygen measurement; evaluate for signs/symptoms of upper airway stenosis and sleep apnea; monitor for constipation and signs/symptoms of GI stenosis; monitor developmental progress and educational needs, including mobility and self-help skills; assess for signs/symptoms of anxiety, ASD, and ADHD; assess for signs/symptoms of frequent infections; monitor for premature puberty in childhood; encourage nonstrenuous exercise, healthy eating, and weight management. Annually (or as clinically indicated), pulmonary function studies or impulse oscillometry in children age six years and older, if able to cooperate with test maneuvers; ophthalmology evaluation; hearing evaluation; assessment for abnormal scarring. Every two years, echocardiogram (in an asymptomatic person with a normal echocardiogram at initial diagnosis). Every five to ten years starting in childhood (age 5-10 years), CT or MR angiogram of the aorta, the exact frequency of which is based on the presence and degree of aortic disease. The decision to use CT or MR depends on the age and behavior of individual, the imaging center, and the availability of supportive services ("Child Life") to accomplish without anesthesia. Starting in the second decade, low threshold for fasting blood sugar and hemoglobin A1c to assess for diabetes mellitus; periodic DXA scan to assess bone mineral density; monitor for heavy menses. As clinically indicated, more extensive cardiovascular imaging in persons with abnormal findings at initial diagnosis; renal bladder ultrasound, if there is intractable incontinence. As needed, in the third decade of life, coronary CT angiography; evaluation for sleep apnea and need for intervention. Agents/circumstances to avoid: Smoking; tissue trauma; elective tracheal surgery/intubation (if possible); tracheal resection; growth hormone therapy. Genetic counseling Myhre syndrome is an autosomal dominant disorder typically caused by a de novo pathogenic variant. De novo SMAD4 pathogenic variants that have been evaluated for
