Bookshelf_NBK425723
KEYWORDS: syndrome, myhre, myhre syndrome, pathogenic, individuals, variant, affected, pathogenic variant, stenosis, disease, findings, testing, genetic, age, treatment


growth hormone therapy. Genetic counseling Myhre syndrome is an autosomal dominant disorder typically caused by a de novo pathogenic variant. De novo SMAD4 pathogenic variants that have been evaluated for parent of origin to date have all been paternal and have been associated with advanced paternal age. A few individuals diagnosed with Myhre syndrome have the disorder as the result of a SMAD4 pathogenic variant inherited from an affected parent. Each child of an individual with Myhre syndrome has a 50% chance of inheriting the SMAD4 pathogenic variant. Once the SMAD4 pathogenic variant has been identified in an affected family member, prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing are possible. Myhre Syndrome 3 Diagnosis No consensus clinical diagnostic criteria for Myhre syndrome have been published. Suggestive Findings Myhre syndrome should be suspected in individuals with the following clinical and imaging findings and family history. Although no single feature is pathognomonic, co-occurrence of some findings is highly suggestive of Myhre syndrome (see Table 2 for frequency of select features). Clinical findings • Short stature (height is significantly less than predicted mid-parental height) with compact body habitus • Conductive and mixed hearing loss • Respiratory difficulties, usually due to restrictive thorax or, infrequently, multilevel airway stenosis (including choanal, subglottic, laryngotracheal, and/or bronchial) • Progressively stiff, thickened skin and subcutaneous tissue • Limited range of motion of the joints with occasional contractures • Effusions involving the heart, airways, lungs, uterus, and peritoneum, which may progress to fibrosis • Mild-to-moderate intellectual disability • Autism spectrum disorder or neurodivergent behaviors • Severe constipation and/or encopresis • Premature puberty Imaging findings • Echocardiographic findings ⚬ Aortic narrowing, such as typical juxtaductal aortic coarctation, diffuse long-segment aortic hypoplasia, or segmental stenosis (branch arteries) ⚬ Pericardial involvement ranging from transient effusion to chronic severe constrictive pericarditis ⚬ Restrictive cardiomyopathy and diastolic dysfunction ⚬ Pulmonary hypertension • Skeletal radiographs (See Figure 7.) ⚬ Thickened calvarium ⚬ Shortened long bones ⚬ Enlarged (tall) or flattened (platyspondyly) vertebrae with shortened pedicles ⚬ Cervical vertebral fusion ⚬ Hypoplastic iliac wings ⚬ Absent or extra ribs ⚬ Small exostoses and/or enostoses (bone islands) Family history. Because Myhre syndrome is typically caused by a de novo pathogenic variant, most probands represent a simplex case (i.e., a single occurrence in a family). Infrequently, the family history may be consistent with autosomal dominant inheritance (e.g., affected males and females in multiple generations) [Meerschaut et al 2019, Demir et
