Bookshelf_NBK425723
KEYWORDS: syndrome, myhre, myhre syndrome, pathogenic, individuals, variant, affected, pathogenic variant, stenosis, disease, findings, testing, genetic, age, treatment


single occurrence in a family). Infrequently, the family history may be consistent with autosomal dominant inheritance (e.g., affected males and females in multiple generations) [Meerschaut et al 2019, Demir et al 2023, Vanbelleghem et al 2024]. 4 GeneReviews ® Figure 1. The same female with Myhre syndrome at ages seven months, four years, and 16 years (lateral and frontal views). Note the short palpebral fissures, thin vermilion of the upper lip, and maxillary underdevelopment. She required tracheostomy at age 13 years for complete tracheal stenosis, attributed in part to traumatic intubations. Reported as Patient 5 in Starr et al Figure 2. The same female with Myhre syndrome as a newborn and at ages 12 months, 3.5 years, and seven years. Note the mild left- sided facial asymmetry (7th cranial nerve palsy), short palpebral fissures, thin vermilion of the upper lip, and progression of mild prognathism. Reported as Patient 1 in Starr et al Figure 3. Male with Myhre syndrome at age 12 years with mild facial features (mild maxillary underdevelopment and thin vermilion of the upper lip) and finger contractures. Reported as Patient 4 in Starr et al Myhre Syndrome 5 Figure 4. Female with Myhre syndrome at age five years. Note the short palpebral fissures, thin vermilion of the upper and lower lips, left-sided facial palsy, and brachydactyly, with otherwise mild features. Reported by Hawkes & Kini Figure 5. The same male with Myhre syndrome at various ages from toddlerhood (lower right corner) to age 19 years (upper left corner). 6 GeneReviews ® Figure 6. Two different women with Myhre syndrome at ages 40 years (A) and 50 years (B). The women are shown together in C. Myhre Syndrome 7 Figure 7. Radiographs of a female with Myhre syndrome at age 14 years A. Lateral cervical spine shows thickened calvaria and anterior cervical vertebral fusion (arrow) of C2 and C3. B. Chest radiograph shows broad ribs and vertebrae, and 11 rib pairs. Establishing the Diagnosis The diagnosis of Myhre syndrome is established in a proband with characteristic clinical findings and a heterozygous (typically recurrent) pathogenic (or likely pathogenic) variant in SMAD4 identified by molecular genetic testing (see Table 1). Note: (1) Per ACMG/AMP variant interpretation guidelines, the terms "pathogenic variant" and "likely be used for clinical decision making [Richards et al 2015]. Reference to "pathogenic variants" in this GeneReview is understood to include likely pathogenic variants. (2) Identification of
