Bookshelf_NBK425723
KEYWORDS: syndrome, myhre, myhre syndrome, pathogenic, individuals, variant, affected, pathogenic variant, stenosis, disease, findings, testing, genetic, age, treatment


variant" and "likely be used for clinical decision making [Richards et al 2015]. Reference to "pathogenic variants" in this GeneReview is understood to include likely pathogenic variants. (2) Identification of a heterozygous SMAD4 variant of uncertain significance does not establish or rule out the diagnosis. (3) Individuals described as having "Myhre- like syndrome" require genetic testing for confirmation. Molecular genetic testing approaches can include a combination of gene-targeted testing (single gene testing, multigene panel) and comprehensive genomic testing (exome sequencing, genome sequencing). Gene-targeted testing requires that the clinician determine which gene(s) are likely involved (see Option 1), whereas comprehensive genomic testing does not (see Option 2). Option 1 When the phenotypic and imaging findings suggest the diagnosis of Myhre syndrome, molecular genetic testing approaches can include single-gene testing or use of a multigene panel: • Single-gene testing. Sequence analysis of SMAD4 may be performed first to detect the recurrent pathogenic missense variants associated with Myhre syndrome. • A multigene panel that includes SMAD4 and other genes of interest (see Differential Diagnosis) is most likely to identify the genetic cause of the condition while limiting identification of variants of uncertain significance and pathogenic variants in genes that do not explain the underlying phenotype. Note: (1) The genes included in the panel and the diagnostic sensitivity of the testing used for each gene vary by laboratory and are likely to change over time. (2) Some multigene panels may include genes not associated with the condition discussed in this GeneReview. (3) In some laboratories, panel options may include a 8 GeneReviews ® custom laboratory-designed panel and/or custom phenotype-focused exome analysis that includes genes specified by the clinician. (4) Methods used in a panel may include sequence analysis, deletion/duplication analysis, and/or other non-sequencing-based tests. genetic tests can be found here. Option 2 When the diagnosis of Myhre syndrome has not been considered, genomic testing may be used. Comprehensive genomic testing does not require the clinician to determine which gene is likely involved. Exome sequencing is often used; genome sequencing is also possible. ACMG recommends exome and genome sequencing as first- or second-tier diagnostic testing for children with intellectual disability and/or multiple congenital anomalies [Manickam et al 2021]. To date, all of the SMAD4 pathogenic variants reported (missense pathogenic variants impacting amino acid positions 496 and 500 causing Myhre syndrome) are within the coding region and are likely to be identified on exome sequencing. ordering
