Bookshelf_NBK425723
KEYWORDS: syndrome, myhre, myhre syndrome, pathogenic, individuals, variant, affected, pathogenic variant, stenosis, disease, findings, testing, genetic, age, treatment


can vary considerably and progress over time (see also Figure 5 in Lin et al ), which make the features more apparent in older individuals. Although classic coarsening of features is not present, mandibular prominence is notable and attributed to disharmonic maxillary/mandibular growth. Facial features typically also include: • Short palpebral fissures (See Figure 4.) • Deeply set eyes • Maxillary underdevelopment • Short philtrum • Narrow mouth • Thin vermilion of the upper lip (See Figure 3.) • Small and/or widely spaced teeth • Prognathism While cleft lip and palate is rare, velopharyngeal insufficiency is common. Developmental delay and intellectual disability. Mild-to-moderate developmental delay and intellectual disability are common. Cognition can be within the normal range, although this is not the most common outcome. Delayed speech can be significant. Most affected individuals are ultimately verbal, using verbal communication as their primary means of communication, although some remain essentially nonverbal. Most affected individuals are supported by parents and under guardianship of their parents. Activities of daily living are achieved by many adults, although delayed toilet training and hygiene (e.g., bathing, dental care, menstrual (generally smaller schools or two-year programs that provide accommodations for individuals with learning challenges). Several adults have been employed, have a partner, reproduced, and engaged in recreational activities such as musical theater, singing, and writing. Other neurodevelopmental features • Abnormalities of tone can include low truncal tone (hypotonia) transitioning to high tone (hypertonia). • Tiptoe walking is observed often, but not well understood. In many children, it is viewed as an autism spectrum disorder behavior. In a few affected individuals, MRI imaging shows a form of tethered cord (rarely, classic) for which surgery is performed (see Management). • Balance issues are attributed to lack of general fitness and stiff joints. • Epilepsy is not common. Some affected individuals have had abnormal movements and staring spells, during which EEG was either not completed or was normal. Myhre Syndrome 11 Neurobehavioral/psychiatric. Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) has been noted in 40%-70% of affected individuals and may range from mild social disability to severe autism. Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and anxiety have also been observed in affected individuals. Psychosis has been rarely observed. Neuroimaging. When performed, brain MRI has commonly found white matter hyperintensities, which are better characterized as white matter injury related to intrinsic cerebral microvasculopathy and not true external injury or birth trauma. Growth. Intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) has been
