Bookshelf_NBK425723
KEYWORDS: syndrome, myhre, myhre syndrome, pathogenic, individuals, variant, affected, pathogenic variant, stenosis, disease, findings, testing, genetic, age, treatment


matter hyperintensities, which are better characterized as white matter injury related to intrinsic cerebral microvasculopathy and not true external injury or birth trauma. Growth. Intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) has been found during the pregnancies of the majority of affected infants. Short stature with compact body habitus (with normal head circumference) becomes more apparent over time. • Most affected individuals have shortened long bones. • Adult height is expected to be more than two standard deviations below what is predicted by parental heights in more than 80% of affected individuals, particularly in those who have a pathogenic variant at codon position 500 (see Genotype-Phenotype Correlations). • Although head circumference is rarely greater than or equal to two standard deviations above the mean for age and sex, it is commonly proportionally greater than height ("relative macrocephaly"). • Although Myhre syndrome-specific growth charts have not been developed, growth is expected to be at the lower end or below the typical growth charts for weight and length/height for infants and children. • Overweight (BMI >25, or >99th centile) may begin in adolescence and is found in most adults. Gastrointestinal/feeding. Many infants and children have difficulty with poor feeding and weight gain and some may benefit from a feeding tube (see Growth in this section and Management). Other gastrointestinal findings may include: • Choking, coughing, and/or dysphagia • Mild-to-severe constipation • Duodenal atresia • Late-onset and congenital pyloric stenosis; less commonly stenosis may involve the duodenum, jejunum, and anus. • Protein-losing enteropathy associated with right heart failure and restrictive cardiomyopathy (Patient 1 in Lin et al ) • Hirschsprung disease • Abnormal liver function tests can suggest a pattern of metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD); however, this is an emerging observation. Cardiovascular. Progressive cardiovascular issues can appear at any age; those with onset in childhood may worsen following instrumentation. Two affected individuals with restrictive cardiomyopathy (which is rare) who were treated with heart and heart/lung transplantation did not survive due to postoperative complications [Starr et al 2015], and thus, transplantation has not been used in other reported affected individuals. 77% had a cardiovascular abnormality including structural heart defects (47%), mild long-segment aorta hypoplasia (60%), systemic hypertension (38%), moderate-to-severe narrowing including coarctation (21%), additional arterial stenoses (13%), pericardial disease (13%), and restrictive cardiomyopathy (4%). • Congenital cardiovascular abnormalities can include the following: ⚬ Atrial septal defect or ventricular septal defect ⚬ Patent ductus arteriosus ⚬
