Bookshelf_NBK425723
KEYWORDS: syndrome, myhre, myhre syndrome, pathogenic, individuals, variant, affected, pathogenic variant, stenosis, disease, findings, testing, genetic, age, treatment


stenoses (13%), pericardial disease (13%), and restrictive cardiomyopathy (4%). • Congenital cardiovascular abnormalities can include the following: ⚬ Atrial septal defect or ventricular septal defect ⚬ Patent ductus arteriosus ⚬ Tetralogy of Fallot 12 GeneReviews ® ⚬ Obstructive defects of the left heart, such as juxtaductal aortic coarctation, long-segment aortic narrowing, aortic valve stenosis, mitral valve stenosis, and multiple levels of obstruction. These are more common than obstructive defects of the right side, such as valvar and branch pulmonary artery stenosis. ⚬ Visceral vascular stenoses (in celiac, superior mesenteric, inferior mesenteric, and/or renal arteries) • Pericardial disease can present as short-term or recurrent effusions, or as chronic or progressive constrictive pericarditis that may require surgical intervention (see Management). ⚬ Restrictive cardiomyopathy, a lethal condition, can be difficult to diagnose without cardiac catheterization to assess hemodynamics. ⚬ While constrictive pericarditis and restrictive cardiomyopathy can present with similar hemodynamic impairment, they differ in their pathogenesis and treatment (see Management). • Pulmonary hypertension, either primary or as a result of left ventricular dysfunction, has been infrequently reported; however, this may reflect limited evaluation and/or bias toward ascertainment and/or reporting of younger affected individuals (as underlying causes of pulmonary hypertension resulting from involvement of the lungs and cardiovascular circulation may evolve with age). It is unknown how often this is secondary to right-sided cardiac dysfunction or severe left-sided obstruction, although both have been observed. Respiratory. Respiratory findings are usually multifactorial. The cause of multilevel airway stenosis ranging from the choanae distally to include laryngotracheal narrowing, subglottic stenosis (ranging from mild to complete), and the bronchi is unknown. There may be a congenital predisposition, which is exacerbated by trauma or infection. However, many children have had numerous intubations without developing "traumatic" stenosis. There can be mild stridor and croup in childhood, which rarely progresses to a severe multilevel form. Upper airway obstruction caused by choanal stenosis progressing to atresia is rare and a dramatic manifestation of airway occlusion from the proliferative process. Other findings can include the following: • Restrictive pulmonary disease, often associated with restrictive thorax • "Asthma" that does not always respond to bronchodilator therapy, as in typical reactive airway disease • Interstitial lung disease and severe pulmonary fibrosis on autopsy [Starr et al 2022]. • Abnormal sleep, most often associated with autism. In some instances, a sleep study may reveal obstructive sleep apnea. • Sleep apnea Immune system. The precise immunologic profile
