Bookshelf_NBK425723
KEYWORDS: syndrome, myhre, myhre syndrome, pathogenic, individuals, variant, affected, pathogenic variant, stenosis, disease, findings, testing, genetic, age, treatment


al 2022]. • Abnormal sleep, most often associated with autism. In some instances, a sleep study may reveal obstructive sleep apnea. • Sleep apnea Immune system. The precise immunologic profile in people with Myhre syndrome has not been fully studied. Increased frequency of infections involving the respiratory tract (including otitis media, sinusitis, mastoiditis, or croup) has been reported and may result from mechanical factors. For example, ear canals, sinuses, and mastoid cells may be opacified from proliferative debris. Compromised innate immunity originating from epithelial cells may contribute to increased susceptibility to upper respiratory tract infections [Lindsay et al 2024]. Serum immunoglobulin (Ig) G and IgA deficiency have been noted in a small number of affected individuals [Lin et al 2024]. Intravenous Ig was utilized with reported benefit in at least two affected individuals [Lin et al 2024] (see Management). Cutaneous and serosal findings. Thick, firm skin is seen in nearly all individuals with Myhre syndrome, and stiffness may progress in many adults. Various terms used to describe the skin include thick, stiff, firm, rough, hyperkeratotic, and inelastic. Skin changes may not be apparent in infancy; they are often first noted on the extensor surfaces, palms, and soles. The changes progress with age. Additional skin findings include minimal creasing of the facial skin and unusual white linear scars. Myhre Syndrome 13 Proliferative fibrosis / abnormal scarring can occur following trauma or surgery. Some individuals develop hypertrophic, keloid-like scars. In addition to the skin, proliferation can also involve the large airways (trachea and bronchi) and the serosal surfaces of the heart, lungs, and peritoneum. Musculoskeletal. Reduced range of motion of large and small joints is characteristic of Myhre syndrome and is exacerbated with age. Posture may be distinct, with flexed elbows and bending forward at the hips (see Ishibashi et al , Figure 1). Other features that may be present include: • Small hands and feet with brachydactyly, found in most individuals (See Figures 3 and 4.) • Clinodactyly • Syndactyly of the toes, usually 2-3 • Scoliosis • Absence of normal lumbar lordosis and straight spine • Sacral dimple, sometimes associated with a tethered spinal cord • Bony fractures, which may be associated with childhood activities and/or trauma • Leg pain involving the calf, which can be severe. Pain is not relieved with standard analgesics and is poorly understood. It can be associated with lower spinal cord compression. Characteristic radiographic findings
