Bookshelf_NBK425723
KEYWORDS: syndrome, myhre, myhre syndrome, pathogenic, individuals, variant, affected, pathogenic variant, stenosis, disease, findings, testing, genetic, age, treatment


involving the calf, which can be severe. Pain is not relieved with standard analgesics and is poorly understood. It can be associated with lower spinal cord compression. Characteristic radiographic findings in affected individuals are listed in Suggestive Findings. Ophthalmologic. Refractive errors are common and usually include hyperopia with astigmatism. Other finding s may include strabismus, cataracts, corectopia, and optic nerve anomalies. Nasolacrimal duct stenosis or atresia is common and may be difficult to manage due to recurrent stenosis related to progressive fibrosis. Hearing. Hearing loss is observed in most individuals with Myhre syndrome. Most newborns pass their neonatal hearing screen; hearing loss usually becomes evident in early childhood to late teens. • Hearing loss is predominantly conductive or mixed; affected individuals most often have a history of bilateral myringotomy tube placement. • The underlying etiology of the hearing loss is often unclear or unknown and may require inner ear imaging to diagnose structural anomalies, although this is thought to be rare. Endocrine. Endocrine findings may include premature puberty (reported in both sexes), early menarche, meno- or metrorrhagia, and macromastia, the latter prompting reduction mammoplasty in some. Both premature ovarian failure and secondary amenorrhea have been observed. Glucose intolerance in adults may be more common than the few reports of diabetes. One teenage girl had hyperinsulinism and an impaired glucose tolerance test, which may indicate insulin resistance [Kilci et al 2022]. Genitourinary. Genitourinary findings are infrequent but have included mild hypospadias and undescended testes in males. Neoplasia. Since a report of neoplasia in six individuals with Myhre syndrome (3 of whom were women with endometrial cancer) [Lin et al 2020], there have been no additional reports of affected individuals with neoplasia. Anecdotally, there are additional cases, including one further person with endometrial cancer and two with hypothalamic hamartoma. Genotype-Phenotype Correlations Genotype-phenotype correlations are still emerging [Yang et al 2022, Lin et al 2024] with a detailed analysis in adults [Vanbelleghem et al 2024]. 14 GeneReviews ® c.1498A>G (p.Ile500Val). Based on limited data, individuals with the highly recurrent c.1498A>G (p.Ile500Val) pathogenic variant are more likely to have prenatal growth deficiency with postnatal short stature and severe aortic obstruction. c.1486C>T (p.Arg496Cys). Individuals with the c.1486C>T (p.Arg496Cys) pathogenic variant are more likely to have a height within the normal range for age and sex. Females with this pathogenic variant are more likely to have premature puberty and heavy menses (see Management). Of the six
