Bookshelf_NBK425723
KEYWORDS: syndrome, myhre, myhre syndrome, pathogenic, individuals, variant, affected, pathogenic variant, stenosis, disease, findings, testing, genetic, age, treatment


a height within the normal range for age and sex. Females with this pathogenic variant are more likely to have premature puberty and heavy menses (see Management). Of the six individuals reported with neoplasia, three were women with endometrial cancer, two of whom were heterozygous for the c.1486C>T (p.Arg496Cys) pathogenic variant. To date, all known affected individuals who have developed seizures have had this spec ific pathogenic variant. Nomenclature In the 2023 revision of the Nosology of Genetic Skeletal Disorders [Unger et al 2023], Myhre syndrome is referred to as SMAD4-related Myhre dysplasia and included in the acromelic dysplasias group [Table 1 in Costantini et al 2023]. LAPS (laryngotracheal stenosis, arthropathy, prognathism, and short stature) syndrome was determined to be allelic to Myhre syndrome with pathogenic variants in the same codons [Lindor et al 2012, Picco et al 2013, Michot et al 2014] (see Genetically Related Disorders); the term is no longer in use. Prevalence The prevalence of Myhre syndrome is unknown. A rough estimate of the prevalence is 1:900,000 individuals. Genetically Related (Allelic) Disorders Other phenotypes known to be associated with germline pathogenic variants in SMAD4 are listed in Table 3. Table 3. SMAD4 Allelic Disorders Disorder MOI Class of Variants Juvenile polyposis syndrome (JPS) AD Loss of function Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT) 1 AD Loss of function AD = autosomal dominant; MOI = mode of inheritance 1. Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT) and Myhre syndrome have opposing phenotypes consistent with SMAD4 loss of function and gain of function, respectively [Gheewalla et al 2022]. Telangiectasias and juvenile polyps, reported in heterozygotes for a SMAD4 loss-of-function pathogenic variant, have not been reported in people with Myhre syndrome. Sporadic tumors (including colorectal cancer and pancreatic tumors) occurring as single tumors in the absence of any other findings of Myhre syndrome frequently contain a somatic variant in SMAD4 that is not present in the germline [Chen et al 2014]. In these circumstances predisposition to these tumors is not heritable. See Molecular Pathogenesis, Cancer and benign tumors. Differential Diagnosis The disorders that most closely resemble Myhre syndrome are the other acromelic dysplasias – geleophysic dysplasia, acromicric dysplasia, and Weill-Marchesani syndrome – which share the findings of thickened skin, short stature, short hands, and stiff joints [Costantini et al 2023]. Table 4 lists these and other syndromes that have more limited overlapping features. Myhre Syndrome 15 Table 4. Disorders of Interest in the Differential Diagnosis
