Bookshelf_NBK425723
KEYWORDS: syndrome, myhre, myhre syndrome, pathogenic, individuals, variant, affected, pathogenic variant, stenosis, disease, findings, testing, genetic, age, treatment


6. continued from previous page. Manifestation/Concern Treatment Considerations/Other • Ensure appropriate social work involvement to connect families w/ • Ongoing assessment of need for palliative local resources, respite, & support. care involvement &/or home nursing Family/Community • Coordinate care to manage multiple • Consider involvement in adaptive sports or subspecialty appointments, Special Olympics. equipment, medications, & supplies. CPAP = continuous positive airway pressure; BiPAP = bilevel positive airway pressure; GI = gastrointestinal; IVIG = intravenous immunoglobulin; PT = physical therapy 1. Growth hormone therapy is not endorsed because its anabolic action may interact with the activating SMAD4 action. 2. All individuals with Myhre syndrome should be under the care of a cardiologist. 3. McGowan et al , Oldenburg et al , Starr et al 4. Oldenburg et al 5. Starr et al 6. Lindor et al Developmental Delay / Intellectual Disability Management Issues The following information represents typical management recommendations for individuals with developmental delay / intellectual disability in the United States; standard recommendations may vary from country to country. Ages 0-3 years. Referral to an early intervention program is recommended for access to occupational, physical, specialists. In the US, early intervention is a federally funded program available in all states that provides in- home services to target individual therapy needs. Ages 3-5 years. In the US, developmental preschool through the local public school district is recommended. Before placement, an evaluation is made to determine needed services and therapies and an individualized education plan (IEP) is developed for those who qualify based on established motor, language, social, or cognitive delay. The early intervention program typically assists with this transition. Developmental preschool is center based; for children too medically unstable to attend, home-based services are provided. All ages. Consultation with a developmental pediatrician is recommended to ensure the involvement of appropriate community, state, and educational agencies (US) and to support parents in maximizing quality of life. Some issues to consider: • IEP services: ⚬ An IEP provides specially designed instruction and related services to children who qualify. ⚬ IEP services will be reviewed annually to determine whether any changes are needed. ⚬ Special education law requires that children participating in an IEP be in the least restrictive environment feasible at school and included in general education as much as possible, when and where appropriate. ⚬ Vision and hearing consultants should be a part of the child's IEP team to support access
