Bookshelf_NBK425723
KEYWORDS: syndrome, myhre, myhre syndrome, pathogenic, individuals, variant, affected, pathogenic variant, stenosis, disease, findings, testing, genetic, age, treatment


evaluation for alternative means of communication (e.g., augmentative and alternative communication [AAC]) for individuals who have expressive language difficulties. An AAC evaluation can be completed by a speech-language pathologist who has expertise in the area. The evaluation will consider cognitive abilities and sensory impairments to determine the most appropriate form of communication. AAC devices can range from low-tech, such as picture exchange communication, to high-tech, such as voice- rather support optimal speech and language development. Also consider using American Sign Language (ASL) for those with hearing loss and minimal expressive language. Social/Behavioral Concerns Children may qualify for and benefit from interventions used in treatment of autism spectrum disorder, including applied behavior analysis (ABA). ABA therapy is targeted to the individual child's behavioral, social, and adaptive strengths and weaknesses and typically performed one on one with a board-certified behavior analyst. Prevention of Secondary Complications Limiting tissue trauma appears to be the single most important preventive measure. When possible, alternative noninvasive approaches should be pursued during diagnosis and management [Oldenburg et al 2015, Starr et al 2015]. • Extreme care with intubation and use of an endotracheal tube without a cuff (or careful monitoring of pressures with a cuff) may help prevent airway stenosis [Oldenburg et al 2015]. • Minimize abdominal and pelvic procedures as extensive adhesions may develop postoperatively [Lindor et al 2012]. 22 GeneReviews ® • Hysterectomy should be an option of last resort for treatment of menorrhagia as postsurgical fibrosis can occur. • Recognize risk of thickened scars or keloids with ear or other piercings. • Use of orthodontic braces may stimulate gum hypertrophy. Surveillance To monitor existing manifestations, the individual's response to supportive care, and the emergence of new manifestations, the evaluations summarized in Table 7 are recommended. Table 7. Myhre Syndrome: Recommended Surveillance System/Concern Evaluation Frequency Growth Measurement of growth parameters At each visit In asymptomatic persons w/normal echocardiogram at Every 2 yrs initial diagnosis, repeat echocardiogram. In persons w/abnormal findings at initial diagnosis, more extensive imaging may be indicated given progressive nature As clinically indicated of disorder. Cardiovascular 1 Right upper arm blood pressure measurement (if tolerated) At each visit Every 5-10 yrs starting in childhood CT angiogram or MRA of aorta 2 (age 5-10 yrs) 3 Coronary CT angiogram As needed in 3rd decade of life Pulmonary function studies or impulse oscillometry in Annually children age >6 yrs, if able to cooperate w/test maneuvers Eval
