Bookshelf_NBK425723
KEYWORDS: syndrome, myhre, myhre syndrome, pathogenic, individuals, variant, affected, pathogenic variant, stenosis, disease, findings, testing, genetic, age, treatment


appears to be the single most important preventive concept in this disorder to communicate to all health care providers involved in an individual's care (see Prevention of Secondary Complications). Decision making with affected individuals and their families should include nonintervention as an option in, for example, ear piercing, orthodontic braces, exploratory procedures, or surgical repair of velopharyngeal insufficiency. Elective tracheal surgery/intubation should be avoided when possible. Tracheal resection is contraindicated. Growth hormone therapy is not currently recommended for affected individuals with short stature. Evaluation of Relatives at Risk See Genetic Counseling for issues related to testing of at-risk relatives for genetic counseling purposes. Therapies Under Investigation The antihypertensive drug losartan is an angiotensin II type 1 receptor blocker. Through this mechanism, it also indirectly antagonizes transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β) signaling. In Myhre syndrome fibroblas ts, losartan corrected an extracellular matrix deposition defect [Piccolo et al 2014]. Thus, in a small uncontrolled open-label pilot study, three individuals with Myhre syndrome were treated with losartan. Improvements in skin thickness, joint range of motion, and myocardial strain were observed [Cappuccio et al 2021]. However, long- term controlled clinical trials with a larger number of affected individuals are needed to establish the efficacy of losartan on skin, joint, and heart abnormalities in Myhre syndrome. Search ClinicalTrials.gov in the US and EU Clinical Trials Register in Europe for access to information on clinical studies for a wide range of diseases and conditions. 24 GeneReviews ® Genetic Counseling Genetic counseling is the process of providing individuals and families with information on the nature, mode(s) of inheritance, and implications of genetic disorders to help them make informed medical and personal decisions. Th e following section deals with genetic risk assessment and the use of family history and genetic testing to clarify genetic status for family members; it is not meant to address all personal, cultural, or ethical issues that may arise or to substitute for consultation with a genetics professional. —ED. Mode of Inheritance Myhre syndrome is an autosomal dominant disorder typically caused by a de novo pathogenic variant. Risk to Family Members Parents of a proband • Most individuals diagnosed with Myhre syndrome have the disorder as the result of a de novo SMAD4 pathogenic variant [Lin et al 2016]. De novo SMAD4 pathogenic variants that have been evaluated for parent of origin to date have all been paternal and have been associated with advanced
