Bookshelf_NBK425723
KEYWORDS: syndrome, myhre, myhre syndrome, pathogenic, individuals, variant, affected, pathogenic variant, stenosis, disease, findings, testing, genetic, age, treatment


variant [Lin et al 2016]. De novo SMAD4 pathogenic variants that have been evaluated for parent of origin to date have all been paternal and have been associated with advanced paternal age [Wood et al 2024]. • A few individuals diagnosed with Myhre syndrome have the disorder as the result of a SMAD4 pathogenic variant inherited from an affected parent. Transmission from an affected mother to two affected children has been reported in three families segregating the p.Arg496Cys SMAD4 pathogenic variant [Meerschaut et al 2019, Demir et al 2023, Vanbelleghem et al 2024]. • If the proband appears to be the only affected family member (i.e., a simplex case), molecular genetic testing is recommended for the parents of the proband to evaluate their genetic status and inform recurrence risk assessment. • If the pathogenic variant identified in the proband is not identified in either parent and parental identity testing has confirmed biological maternity and paternity, the following possibilities should be considered: ⚬ The proband has a de novo pathogenic variant. ⚬ The proband inherited a pathogenic variant from a parent with gonadal (or somatic and gonadal) mosaicism. Note: Testing of parental leukocyte DNA may not detect all instances of somatic mosaicism and will not detect a pathogenic variant that is present in the germ (gonadal) cells only. Sibs of a proband. The risk to the sibs of the proband depends on the genetic status of the proband's parents: • If a parent of the proband is affected and/or is known to have the pathogenic variant identified in the proband, the risk to the sibs of inheriting the pathogenic variant is 50%. • If the SMAD4 pathogenic variant identified in the proband cannot be detected in the leukocyte DNA of either parent, the recurrence risk to sibs is estimated to be 1% because of the possibility of parental gonadal mosaicism [Rahbari et al 2016]. • If the parents have not been tested for the SMAD4 pathogenic variant but are clinically unaffected, the risk to the sibs of a proband appears to be low. However, sibs of a proband with clinically unaffected parents are still presumed to be at increased risk for Myhre syndrome because of the possibility of parental gonadal mosaicism. Offspring of a proband. Each child of an individual with Myhre syndrome has a 50% chance of inheriting the SMAD4 pathogenic variant. Other family members. The risk to other family
