Bookshelf_NBK425723
KEYWORDS: syndrome, myhre, myhre syndrome, pathogenic, individuals, variant, affected, pathogenic variant, stenosis, disease, findings, testing, genetic, age, treatment


OMIM; protein from UniProt. Table B. OMIM Entries for Myhre Syndrome (View All in OMIM) 139210 MYHRE SYNDROME; MYHRS 600993 SMAD FAMILY MEMBER 4; SMAD4 Molecular Pathogenesis SMAD4 encodes mothers against decapentaplegic homolog 4 (SMAD4), signal transduction protein that has roles in many diverse signaling pathways including canonical transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β), bone morphogenetic protein (BMP), and activin signaling. Heterozygous gain-of-function pathogenic variants in SMAD4 that cause Myhre syndrome have been thought to confer stability of the resulting abnormal protein due to an apparent decrease in monoubiquitination. The SMAD4 pathogenic variant p.Ile500Val increases stability of the SMAD3/SMAD4 transcriptional complex [Lindsay et al 2024]. Both of these biochemical activities may be at play, as they would both affect the TGF-β signaling pathway, altering expression of downstream target genes. Signaling perturbations result in altered development of the axial and appendicular skeleton, cardiac muscle, and central nervous system during development and abnormal extracellular matrix deposition during early development and adulthood [Caputo et al 2012, Le Goff et al 2014, Piccolo et al 2014]. In contrast, heterozygous loss-of-function SMAD4 pathogenic variants have been well established as the cause of a spectrum of acquired cardiac and neoplastic diseases, including arteriovenous malformations, aortopathies, pulmonary artery hypertension, and colon cancer susceptibility in the context of juvenile polyposis and hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia syndromes [Andrabi et al 2011, Nasim et al 2011, Heald et al 2015]. Mechanism of disease causation. Gain of function (increased TGF-β signaling potency) has been demonstrated in some studies [Lindsay et al 2024]; however, other research suggests a dominant-negative mechanism causing an interruption of typical TGF-β and BMP signaling [Alankarage et al 2022]. Resolution of the observed differences is still outstanding. Myhre Syndrome 27 Table 8. SMAD4 Pathogenic Variants Referenced in This GeneReview Reference Sequences DNA Nucleotide Change Predicted Protein Change Comment [Reference] • Persons w/this variant are typically not as short in stature. c.1486C>T p.Arg496Cys • 3 affected women w/this variant developed endometrial cancer [Lin et al NM_005359.6 2020]. 1 NP_005350.1 • Highly recurrent pathogenic variant c.1498A>G p.Ile500Val • This variant may be assoc w/↑ risk for pre- & postnatal growth deficiency. Variants listed in the table have been provided by the authors. GeneReviews staff have not independently verified the classification of variants. GeneReviews follows the standard naming conventions of the Human Genome Variation Society (varnomen.hgvs.org). See Quick Reference for an explanation of nomenclature. 1. It remains unclear if this specific pathogenic variant
