HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pouchitis, patients, author manuscript, author, manuscript, antibiotics, therapies, chronic, treatment, pouch, evidence, manuscript author, therapy, disease, use


HHS Public Access Author manuscript Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Published in final edited form as: Gastroenterology. 2024 January ; 166(1): 59–85. doi:. AGA Clinical Practice Guideline on the Management of Pouchitis and Inflammatory Pouch Disorders Edward L. Barnes*,1,2,3, Manasi Agrawal4,5,*, Gaurav Syal6, Ashwin N. Ananthakrishnan7, Benjamin L. Cohen8, John P. Haydek1,2, Elie S. Al Kazzi9, Samuel Eisenstein10, Jana G. Hashash11, Shahnaz S. Sultan12, Laura E. Raffals13, Siddharth Singh6 on behalf of the AGA Clinical Guidelines Committee Hill, NC; Hill, Chapel Hill, NC; Chapel Hill, NC; Sinai, New York NY; 4930 Del Ray Avenue, Bethesda, Maryland 20814, . *Denotes co-first authors Conflicts of Interest: • Edward L. Barnes – Consulting fees from Bristol-Meyers Squibb and TARGET RWE. • Manasi Agrawal – None • Gaurav Syal – None • Ashwin N Ananthakrishnan – Consulting fees from Sandoz • Benjamin L. Cohen – Consulting fees from Abbvie, Celgene-Bristol Myers Squibb, Lilly, Pfizer, Sublimity Therapeutics, Takeda, TARGET RWE; CME Companies: Cornerstones, Vindico; Speaking: Abbvie; Educational Grant: Pfizer • John Haydek – None • Elie S. Al Kazzi – None • Samuel Eisenstein – Consulting fees from Takeda and Ethicon Surgical Robotics • Jana G. Hashash – None • Laura E. Raffals – Consulting fees from Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Fresenius Kabi USA, Roivant • Siddharth Singh – personal fees from Pfizer for ad hoc grant review, and research grants from Pfizer Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Boston, MA; Jolla, CA; Jacksonville, FL; Minnesota and Veterans Affairs Healthcare System, Minneapolis, Minnesota; Abstract Background & Aims: Pouchitis is the most common complication after restorative proctocolectomy with ileal pouch-anal anastomosis (IPAA) for ulcerative colitis (UC). This American Gastroenterological Association (AGA) guideline is intended to support practitioners in the management of pouchitis and inflammatory pouch disorders. Methods: A multi-disciplinary panel of content experts and guideline methodologists used the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) framework to and develop recommendations for the prevention and treatment of pouchitis, Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch, and cuffitis. Results: The AGA guideline panel made nine conditional recommendations. In patients with UC who have undergone IPAA and experience intermittent symptoms of pouchitis, the AGA suggests using antibiotics for the treatment of pouchitis. In patients who experience recurrent episodes of pouchitis that respond to antibiotics, the AGA suggests using probiotics for the prevention of recurrent pouchitis. In patients who experience recurrent pouchitis that responds to antibiotics but
