HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pouchitis, patients, author manuscript, author, manuscript, antibiotics, therapies, chronic, treatment, pouch, evidence, manuscript author, therapy, disease, use


recurrent episodes of pouchitis that respond to antibiotics, the AGA suggests using probiotics for the prevention of recurrent pouchitis. In patients who experience recurrent pouchitis that responds to antibiotics but relapses shortly after stopping antibiotics (also known as chronic antibiotic- dependent pouchitis), the AGA suggests using chronic antibiotic therapy to prevent recurrent pouchitis; however, in patients who are intolerant to antibiotics or who are concerned about the risks of long-term antibiotic therapy, the AGA suggests using advanced immunosuppressive therapies (biologics and/or oral small molecule drugs) approved for treatment of IBD. In patients who experience recurrent pouchitis with inadequate response to antibiotics (also known as chronic antibiotic-refractory pouchitis), the AGA suggests using advanced immunosuppressive therapies; corticosteroids can also be considered in these patients. In patients who develop symptoms due to Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch, the AGA suggests using corticosteroids and advanced immunosuppressive therapies. In patients who experience symptoms due to cuffitis, the AGA suggests using therapies that have been approved for the treatment of UC, starting with topical 5-aminosalicylates or topical corticosteroids. The panel also proposed key implementation Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript considerations for optimal management of pouchitis and Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch and identified several knowledge gaps, and areas for future research. Conclusions: This guideline provides a comprehensive, patient-centered approach to the management of patients with pouchitis and other inflammatory conditions of the pouch. Keywords Inflammatory bowel disease; pouchitis; ileal pouch-anal anastomosis; J-pouch; evidence synthesis Restorative proctocolectomy with ileal pouch-anal anastomosis (IPAA) for patients with ulcerative colitis (UC) is associated with many short and long-term complications. Pouchitis is the most common complication after IPAA, affecting 48% of patients within the first 2 years after IPAA,1 with up to 80% of patients developing pouchitis symptoms at some point after IPAA.2, 3 Several new therapies have emerged for UC in recent years4, 5 which have contributed to a decrease in the rate of colectomy over time,6 with contemporary 5- and 10-years risk of colectomy being 7.0% and 9.6%, respectively. However, the overall incidence rates of pouchitis within the first 2 years after IPAA may have increased in the recent decades.7 Pouchitis has significant impact on quality of life3 of patients, and high cost burden.8 In addition, approximately 17% patients may develop chronic symptoms of pouchitis, with relapsing-remitting course at varying intervals9 and 10% patients may develop Crohn’s-like
