HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pouchitis, patients, author manuscript, author, manuscript, antibiotics, therapies, chronic, treatment, pouch, evidence, manuscript author, therapy, disease, use


life3 of patients, and high cost burden.8 In addition, approximately 17% patients may develop chronic symptoms of pouchitis, with relapsing-remitting course at varying intervals9 and 10% patients may develop Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch.10 Multiple strategies have been utilized in the treatment and prevention of pouchitis and inflammatory pouch conditions, including antibiotics, probiotics, corticosteroids and advanced immunosuppressive therapies including biologics and oral small molecule drugs. However, most of the evidence base is primarily derived from retrospective observational studies or comparisons of small cohorts. Data on patients’ values and preferences for specific management decisions and treatment choices are also limited. This results in substantial practice variability. Despite this, important advances are being made in the field, for instance, the development of scoring systems to better characterize patient reported outcomes and endoscopic findings.11–13 The recent randomized controlled trial (RCT) comparing vedolizumab to placebo in the treatment of patients with chronic refractory pouchitis (the EARNEST trial)14 was a landmark study in the field providing guidance on trial design and outcomes for this disease. Hence, the American Gastroenterological Association (AGA) prioritized the development of clinical guidelines informing the management of pouchitis and inflammatory pouch disorders in patients with UC who have undergone IPAA. This guideline will complement recent AGA Clinical Guidelines on the management of moderate to severe UC and moderate to severe Crohn’s disease (CD). OBJECTIVE The objective of this guideline was to provide guidance in the management of pouchitis and other inflammatory disorders (such as Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch and cuffitis) that can occur after colectomy with IPAA for UC. Aspects related to dysplasia surveillance in Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript the pouch, or issues unique to patients who undergo IPAA for established CD or for familial adenomatous polyposis will not be covered by this guideline. TARGET AUDIENCE The target audience for this guideline includes healthcare professionals (i.e., primary care, gastroenterology, and surgical professionals that care for patients after IPAA), patients and policy makers. This guideline is not intended to impose a standard of care, but rather provided the basis for rational, informed decisions for patients and healthcare professionals. Statements regarding the underlying values and preferences, as well as qualifying comments should not be omitted when quoting or translating recommendations from this guideline. Recommendations are intended to provide guidance for typical scenarios that arise among patients with pouchitis and
