HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pouchitis, patients, author manuscript, author, manuscript, antibiotics, therapies, chronic, treatment, pouch, evidence, manuscript author, therapy, disease, use


qualifying comments should not be omitted when quoting or translating recommendations from this guideline. Recommendations are intended to provide guidance for typical scenarios that arise among patients with pouchitis and other inflammatory conditions of the pouch; no recommendation can consider all unique circumstances that must be accounted for when making recommendations for individual patients. Shared-decision making with discussion of potential benefits and harms of therapy, particularly for conditional recommendations, and consideration for specific tradeoffs and patient preferences/values should be undertaken when making treatment decisions. METHODS Overview This document represents official recommendations from the AGA. It was developed using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) framework for therapeutic strategies and adheres to best practices in guideline development, per the direction provided by the National Academy of Medicine.15 The development of this document is fully supported by the AGA Institute. Guideline Panel Composition and Conflicts of Interest Members of the guideline and evidence synthesis panel were selected based on of interest in a comprehensive vetting process. The multidisciplinary guideline panel included gastroenterologists with expertise in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), guideline methodologists and general gastroenterologists. The evidence synthesis team consisted of six members, including three content experts (Edward Barnes, Gaurav Syal, and Laura Raffals) and three GRADE methodologists (senior methodologist and Co-Chair of the guideline: Siddharth Singh; junior methodologists: Elie Al Kazzi, John Haydek). The guideline panel consisted of five members including gastroenterologists and a colorectal surgeon focusing on the management of patients with IBD (Guideline Chair: Manasi Agrawal; guideline panel members: Ashwin Ananthakrishnan, Benjamin Cohen, Jana Hashash and Samuel Eisenstein). A patient representative was also involved in the development of guideline recommendations. Panel members disclosed all conflicts of interest, which were defined and categorized per AGA policies and the National Academy of Medicine and Guidelines International Network standards. No guideline panel member Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript was excused from participation in the process owing to disqualifying conflict. A full list of Formulation of Clinical Questions The guideline panel and evidence synthesis teams developed clinically relevant and focused questions pertaining to prevention and treatment of inflammatory conditions of the pouch through an iterative process. Well-defined statements in the context of these focused questions, using the patients, intervention, comparator, and outcome (PICO) framework, were used to develop the literature search strategy, including inclusion and exclusion criteria. Broadly, the
