HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pouchitis, patients, author manuscript, author, manuscript, antibiotics, therapies, chronic, treatment, pouch, evidence, manuscript author, therapy, disease, use


the context of these focused questions, using the patients, intervention, comparator, and outcome (PICO) framework, were used to develop the literature search strategy, including inclusion and exclusion criteria. Broadly, the questions focused on the primary prevention of pouchitis after IPAA, treatment of pouchitis and prevention of recurrent and/or refractory pouchitis, treatment of Crohn’s- like disease of the pouch, and treatment of cuffitis. The AGA Governing Board approved the final set of questions and statements in September 2022. The final focused questions and PICO questions are included in Table 1. Outcomes of Interest For PICOs focusing on the treatment of patients with symptoms of pouchitis, Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch and cuffitis, the evidence synthesis team identified achieving significant prioritized over clinical remission since the latter was inconsistently defined and reported in observational studies. No standard definition of outcomes or disease activity index was uniformly used in included studies. The timeline for assessment of this outcome was preferentially within 8–14 weeks of intervention; alternative time points were used when the study did not report outcome within this time frame. For PICOs focusing on primary and secondary prevention of pouchitis, we focused on development of pouchitis symptoms as the outcome of interest. This outcome was preferentially examined 6–12 months after initiation of intervention. Endoscopic or histological outcomes were not prioritized as being critical for decision-making for these guidelines. Safety outcomes such as serious adverse events were considered important outcomes, and since data on these were inconsistently reported in included studies, we relied on prior systematic reviews on safety of different interventions in diverse diseases. Search Strategy, Study Selection, Data Abstraction, and Statistical Analysis Details of the approach to evidence synthesis are reported in the accompanying Evidence Synthesis document. Briefly, a comprehensive search of Ovid MEDLINE, Embase, and Wiley Cochrane Library, using a combination of controlled vocabulary terms and relevant keywords (Supplementary Table 1), from inception to October 20, 2022, was conducted by an experienced medical librarian, with input from the guideline methodologist. References of previous guidelines and consensus statements were reviewed to ensure that no relevant study was missed. Content experts provided insights into ongoing studies. All searches were limited to human subjects and the English language. The inclusion and exclusion criteria were based on the formulated PICO questions. Both RCTs and observational studies reporting on the efficacy, effectiveness and adverse effects of therapies of interest (probiotics, antibiotics, corticosteroids, 5-aminosalicylates, and Gastroenterology.
