HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pouchitis, patients, author manuscript, author, manuscript, antibiotics, therapies, chronic, treatment, pouch, evidence, manuscript author, therapy, disease, use


were based on the formulated PICO questions. Both RCTs and observational studies reporting on the efficacy, effectiveness and adverse effects of therapies of interest (probiotics, antibiotics, corticosteroids, 5-aminosalicylates, and Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript advanced immunosuppressive therapies including biologics and small molecule drugs) for the prevention or treatment of the following inflammatory disorders of the pouch were included: pouchitis, Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch, and cuffitis. Study selection was conducted in duplicate by a combination of a methodologist and content expert, and disagreements were resolved by consensus. From each study, pertinent data on patients, definition of disease entity, intervention (and comparator, for comparative studies or RCTs), outcome definition and timing of assessment was abstracted. For single-arm studies, we calculated pooled rates of achieving outcome with intervention; for comparative studies, pooled relative risk (RR) or odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI), were calculated using the DerSimonian-Liard random-effects model. Statistical heterogeneity was assessed using the I2 statistic. Small study effects were examined using funnel plot symmetry, though it is important to recognize that these tests are unreliable when the number of studies is <10 or there is considerable unexplained heterogeneity. All analyses were performed using Comprehensive Meta-Analysis version 2 (Biostat, Englewood, NJ). In order to derive RR for evidence derived primarily from single-arm studies, we used hypothetical placebo rates (or spontaneous improvement rates) as comparator. This rate patients experiencing infrequent episodes of pouchitis, and 30% (range, 20% to 40%) for patients experiencing chronic symptoms of pouchitis, pouchitis refractory to antibiotics or Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch. These estimates are comparable to rates of clinical response observed in trials of patients with moderate to severe UC, moderate to severe luminal CD, and in the few trials of pouchitis that have been published. Certainty of the Evidence We use the GRADE approach to rate the certainty of evidence.15 Briefly, using this observational studies starts at low quality evidence. This evidence can be further rated down for risk of bias in the evidence, indirectness, inconsistency, imprecision and publication bias. In selected cases, particularly for observational studies, evidence may be rated up if a large treatment effect is observed, if there is a dose-response relationship or if all plausible confounding and bias would reduce a demonstrated effect or suggest a spurious effect if no effect was observed. Evidence profiles were developed for
