HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pouchitis, patients, author manuscript, author, manuscript, antibiotics, therapies, chronic, treatment, pouch, evidence, manuscript author, therapy, disease, use


a dose-response relationship or if all plausible confounding and bias would reduce a demonstrated effect or suggest a spurious effect if no effect was observed. Evidence profiles were developed for each intervention using the GRADEpro Guideline Development Tool ( (Supplementary Table 2). Translating Evidence to Recommendations The guideline panel and evidence synthesis panel met face-to-face on March 24, 2023, to discuss the evidence and to formulate recommendations. Based on the GRADE Evidence-to-Decision framework, we weighed the magnitude of and balance between the benefit and harms of interventions, patients’ values and preferences, and the domains The panel reached a consensus for all guidelines. The certainty of evidence and the strength of recommendation are provided for each clinical question. Based on GRADE methodology, we label recommendations as “strong” or “conditional.” The phrase “we recommend” indicates strong recommendations and the phrase “we suggest” indicates Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript conditional recommendations and provide the suggested interpretation of strong and In addition, the panel provided broad overarching, as well as recommendation-specific implementation considerations to provide context and facilitate real-world use and adoption Review Process This guideline was submitted for public comment and external peer review and was approved by the AGA Governing Board. DISCUSSION OF RECOMMENDATIONS A summary of all the recommendations is provided in Table 3 and discussed below. Broad overarching considerations for implementing these recommendations in clinical practice are discussed below and in Table 4. Key considerations for implementing these recommendations in clinical practice 1. Normal bowel function after IPAA for UC, and typical symptoms of pouchitis: After an initial period of postoperative adjustment, patients with IPAA can expect to average 4–8 bowel movements per day and 1–2 bowel patients with pouchitis, with typical symptoms being increased stool frequency, urgency, lower abdominal pain or cramping, and/or pelvic discomfort.17, 18 Clinical symptoms of pouchitis do not necessarily correlate with findings on endoscopy or histology.18 2. Pragmatic definitions of pouchitis (Table 5): There is considerable heterogeneity in the clinical course of patients after IPAA for UC. To develop these recommendations, and facilitate their implementation, we propose pragmatic definitions of pouchitis and other inflammatory conditions of the pouch, to identify patients for whom specific recommendations would apply. (A) Intermittent pouchitis was defined as isolated and infrequent episodes of typical pouchitis symptoms that resolve with therapy (most commonly, antibiotics) or spontaneously, followed by extended
