HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pouchitis, patients, author manuscript, author, manuscript, antibiotics, therapies, chronic, treatment, pouch, evidence, manuscript author, therapy, disease, use


specific recommendations would apply. (A) Intermittent pouchitis was defined as isolated and infrequent episodes of typical pouchitis symptoms that resolve with therapy (most commonly, antibiotics) or spontaneously, followed by extended periods of normal pouch function (typically months to years). Since antibiotics are the most commonly used therapy for symptoms of pouchitis, we anchored our functional definitions of pouchitis around response to antibiotic therapy. (B) Chronic antibiotic- dependent pouchitis was defined as recurrent episodes of pouchitis that responds to antibiotic therapy but relapses shortly after stopping antibiotics (typically within days to weeks), and often require recurrent or continuous antibiotic therapy or other advanced therapies to achieve symptom control. We did not define this entity based on a specific number of pouchitis episodes within a 12-month time period, since this is a continuum (some patients may require 3–4 courses of antibiotics per year, and others require almost continuous antibiotics) and patients’ and providers’ preferences for treatment approach varies depending on frequency of these episodes. (C) Chronic antibiotic-refractory pouchitis Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript was defined as relapsing-remitting or continuous symptoms of pouchitis with inadequate response to typical antibiotic therapy (ongoing symptoms attributable to pouchitis), often needing escalation to other therapies. (D) Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch was defined based on the most common and accepted diagnostic criteria for this condition, recognizing variability in prior literature. These diagnostic criteria include presence of a perianal or other fistula that developed at least 12 months after the final stage of IPAA surgery, stricture of the pouch body or pre-pouch ileum, and the presence of pre-pouch ileitis.10 The panel recognized that pouchitis may often co-exist in patients with Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch. 3. Endoscopic evaluation in patients with pouch disorders: The guideline panel felt that pouchoscopy should be performed in patients experiencing frequent recurrent episodes of pouchitis (suspected chronic antibiotic-dependent pouchitis), in patients with inadequate response to antibiotics before considering other therapies (suspected chronic antibiotic-refractory pouchitis), in patients experiencing atypical symptoms of pouchitis, and when the diagnosis of Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch is being considered. The guideline panel felt routine pouchoscopy to confirm pouch inflammation in patients experiencing typical symptoms of pouchitis, prior to initiation of antibiotics, or in patients who experience infrequent episodes of pouchitis that respond to typical management, may not be required, although it may provide additional information on
