HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pouchitis, patients, author manuscript, author, manuscript, antibiotics, therapies, chronic, treatment, pouch, evidence, manuscript author, therapy, disease, use


prior to initiation of antibiotics, or in patients who experience infrequent episodes of pouchitis that respond to typical management, may not be required, although it may provide additional information on disease severity in this setting. 4. Treatment goals and targets: The guideline panel felt that the overall goal of treating patients with pouchitis is resolution of symptoms. There are emerging data suggesting that resolution of endoscopic and/or histologic inflammation may be associated with lower risk of future episodes of pouchitis, but endoscopic remission was not considered a critical outcome for decision-making. The guideline panel also did not make explicit recommendations around management of asymptomatic patients who have endoscopic and/or histologic evidence of inflammation in the pouch, due to paucity of evidence and high variability in patients’ values and preferences for treatment. 5. Use of calprotectin and other biomarkers: The use of biomarkers has been evaluated for the management of UC and CD where recent AGA guidelines demonstrate the utility and practical implementation of biomarker testing in clinical practice.19 Prior studies have demonstrated that fecal calprotectin is correlated with the pouchitis disease activity index (PDAI),20 specifically endoscopic inflammation,21 and that fecal calprotectin levels elevate prior to a clinical diagnosis of pouchitis.22 Lactoferrin also appears to increase prior to a diagnosis of pouchitis and is correlated with endoscopic inflammation noted on pouchoscopy.22 However, these guidelines did not systematically examine the utility of fecal calprotectin and other biomarkers in the management of practice. Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 6. Alternative etiologies for patients with pouch disorders: Although inflammatory conditions of the pouch reflect the most common complications after IPAA, other underlying disorders may also contribute to symptoms of pouch dysfunction after IPAA. Mechanisms that impair pouch emptying including stricture at the ileo-anal anastomosis, stricture at stoma takedown site and evacuation disorders such as non-relaxing pelvic floor dysfunction may contribute to atypical symptoms after IPAA, such as incomplete evacuation, straining, pelvic discomfort, etc.23–25 Additionally, the evaluation of other potential inflammatory or infectious etiologies of pouch dysfunction must be considered. The benefit or role of routine Clostridioides difficile testing for each episode of pouchitis is not well defined despite the increased use of antibiotics among patients with pouchitis. However, in patients with pouchitis that is refractory to typical therapy, evaluating for Clostridioides difficile infection and other secondary or alternative etiologies of inflammation may
