HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pouchitis, patients, author manuscript, author, manuscript, antibiotics, therapies, chronic, treatment, pouch, evidence, manuscript author, therapy, disease, use


antibiotics among patients with pouchitis. However, in patients with pouchitis that is refractory to typical therapy, evaluating for Clostridioides difficile infection and other secondary or alternative etiologies of inflammation may be particularly beneficial.16 GUIDELINE RECOMMENDATIONS PRIMARY PREVENTION OF POUCHITIS Question 1. In patients who undergo ileal pouch-anal anastomosis for ulcerative colitis, what is the effectiveness of probiotics for the primary prevention of pouchitis? Recommendation 1. In patients with ulcerative colitis who undergo IPAA, the AGA makes no recommendation in favor of, or against, the use of probiotics for primary prevention of pouchitis (No recommendation, knowledge gap). • Comment: There is a need for better evidence from clinical trials to inform the use of probiotics as a primary prevention strategy for pouchitis, especially given the potential cost and burden of long-term use with limited data on potential benefits. Summary and Certainty of the Evidence—A primary prevention strategy for pouchitis is based on several factors. It is recognized that a significant proportion of patients will develop pouchitis within the first year26 after IPAA. Intestinal bacteria are believed to play an important role in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease,27 including pouchitis, and thus probiotics have been proposed as a potential mechanism for primary prevention of pouchitis. We identified four RCTs that utilized probiotics as a method of primary prevention of pouchitis,26, 28–30 however, one RCT did not contribute any events in the intervention or comparator arm.29 On meta-analysis, the RR for the development of pouchitis among patients receiving probiotics for the prevention of pouchitis when compared to placebo was 0.18 (95% CI 0.05 – 0.62) (eFigure 1). It is unclear whether multi-strain probiotics are more effective than single-strain probiotics and whether a specific probiotic strain is more effective than another. The overall body of evidence was rated as very low certainty, being rated down for risk of bias, very serious imprecision (due to very low event rate <35), and strong concern for publication bias. (Table 6A). Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Benefits and Harms (Downsides) No prevention with probiotics.: In current practice, a vast majority of patients undergoing IPAA for UC do not employ a primary preventive strategy. Most patients who develop pouchitis respond well (and rapidly) to an initial course of antibiotics and thus the potential downside of developing pouchitis if not employing a preventive strategy may be offset
