HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pouchitis, patients, author manuscript, author, manuscript, antibiotics, therapies, chronic, treatment, pouch, evidence, manuscript author, therapy, disease, use


who develop pouchitis respond well (and rapidly) to an initial course of antibiotics and thus the potential downside of developing pouchitis if not employing a preventive strategy may be offset by the benefit of not taking a daily preventive therapy. Prevention with probiotics.: Probiotics are not associated with substantial risk of serious adverse events and are generally well tolerated. The cost and burden of chronic preventive therapy with probiotics may be substantial, although a formal cost-effectiveness analysis has not been conducted. Rationale—Overall, the benefit of probiotics for primary prevention of pouchitis was uncertain, and while there was no direct harm, there was concern for high burden, cost, and overall utility of chronic, primary prevention strategy for most individuals who have undergone IPAA. The vast majority of patients who develop pouchitis will respond well to the initial treatment with 2–4 week course of antibiotics. The duration of primary prophylaxis is also unclear and could potentially be lifelong, since it is unclear whether limited duration of probiotics early after IPAA fundamentally prevents any future development of pouchitis. Moreover, given limited insurance coverage, feasibility of widespread implementation is unclear, with substantial concern of exacerbating inequities. The efficacy of different probiotics may be different, and there was limited data informing the choice of one over another. Hence, overall, the panel recommended neither in favor of, nor against, the use probiotics for primary prevention of pouchitis. A subset of patients at high risk of pouchitis, and/or of chronic pouchitis, such as those to primary sclerosing cholangitis, may consider using probiotics for primary prevention though the effectiveness of this strategy has not specifically been studied in these high-risk populations. Future larger RCTs on primary prevention strategies, particularly in patients at high risk of recurrent pouchitis, are warranted. Question 2. In patients who undergo ileal pouch-anal anastomosis for ulcerative colitis, what is the effectiveness of antibiotics for the primary prevention of pouchitis? Recommendation 2. In patients with ulcerative colitis who undergo IPAA, the AGA suggests against using antibiotics for the primary prevention of pouchitis (Conditional recommendation, very low certainty of evidence). • Comment: There is a need for better evidence from clinical trials to inform the use of antibiotics as a primary prevention strategy for pouchitis, especially given the potential side effects and burden of long-term use with limited data on potential benefits. Summary and Certainty of the Evidence—We identified one RCT evaluating the effectiveness of tinidazole
