HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pouchitis, patients, author manuscript, author, manuscript, antibiotics, therapies, chronic, treatment, pouch, evidence, manuscript author, therapy, disease, use


given the potential side effects and burden of long-term use with limited data on potential benefits. Summary and Certainty of the Evidence—We identified one RCT evaluating the effectiveness of tinidazole for primary prevention of pouchitis after proctocolectomy with IPAA for UC.31 In this study, oral tinidazole (2/25; 8.0%) was more effective than placebo Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript (5/13; 38.5%) (RR 0.21; 95% CI 0.05–0.93) in preventing pouchitis. Interestingly, three patients developed pouchitis, 4–10 months after stopping tinidazole. The overall body of evidence was rated as very low certainty, due to risk of bias, and very serious imprecision due to very low event rate (Table 6B). Benefits and Harms (Downsides)—The potential benefit of primary prophylaxis with antibiotics is prevention of initial episode of pouchitis after IPAA. However, there are several adverse effects associated with long-term use of antibiotics. These include drug intolerance, Clostridioides difficile infection, and promoting colonization of drug-resistant organisms. In addition, long-term effects on the microbiota of the pouch from chronic early antibiotic exposure is unknown to date. Rationale—Although pouchitis is the most common complication after IPAA, the majority of patients will respond well to the initial treatment with antibiotics within 2–4 weeks of therapy. Indefinite therapy with antibiotics for primary prevention in an asymptomatic patient is associated with several potential adverse effects with risks higher than sporadic courses of antibiotics for treatment of pouchitis. The duration of chronic antibiotic therapy develop pouchitis within one year of stopping antibiotics. It is unclear which patients progress from sporadic episodes of pouchitis to chronic symptoms of pouchitis, or other inflammatory conditions of the pouch, and whether primary prophylaxis with chronic antibiotic therapy would modify that risk. Hence, the panel suggested against the use of antibiotics for primary prevention of pouchitis. TREATMENT OF POUCHITIS Question 3. In adult outpatients with pouchitis, what is the effectiveness of antibiotics for treatment of pouchitis? Recommendation 3. In patients with ulcerative colitis who have undergone IPAA and experience infrequent episodes of pouchitis, the AGA suggests using antibiotics for treatment of pouchitis (Conditional recommendation, very low quality of evidence). Implementation Considerations • Based on available evidence, ciprofloxacin and/or metronidazole are the preferred antibiotics for treatment of pouchitis. • The typical duration of antibiotic therapy for the treatment of pouchitis is 2–4 weeks. • An approach using a combination of antibiotics may be more effective
