HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pouchitis, patients, author manuscript, author, manuscript, antibiotics, therapies, chronic, treatment, pouch, evidence, manuscript author, therapy, disease, use


treatment of pouchitis. • The typical duration of antibiotic therapy for the treatment of pouchitis is 2–4 weeks. • An approach using a combination of antibiotics may be more effective in patients who do not respond to single antibiotic therapy. • Alternative antibiotic regimens, such as oral vancomycin, may be considered or intolerance to ciprofloxacin and/or metronidazole. Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Summary and Certainty of the Evidence—Antibiotics remain the primary initial treatment for pouchitis. We identified four small RCTs evaluating antibiotics for treatment of pouchitis, of which two were placebo-controlled. In these two trials, 11/19 antibiotic- 41.82). We subsequently focused on eight single-arm observational studies examining the effectiveness of different antibiotics for treatment of pouchitis (ciprofloxacin, metronidazole, rifaximin, vancomycin; either alone or in various combinations), and used data from four arms of RCTs of antibiotics to estimate pooled response rate. On pooled analysis, 160/239 patients (pooled response, 65%; 95% CI, 52–75) treated with antibiotics had marked improvement in symptoms (eFigure 2). Overall response rates were similar across different antibiotics, and use of single vs. combined antibiotics. With assumed spontaneous improvement rates (placebo response rates) of 40% (range, 30–50%) in patients experiencing infrequent episodes of pouchitis, antibiotics were associated with 67% higher derived from these observational studies was rated down for risk of bias in included studies and inconsistency due to diverse patient population with varying levels of prior antibiotic- responsiveness, leading to overall very low certainty of evidence (Table 7). Benefits and Harms (Downsides)—Antibiotics are the most common treatment for intermittent episodes of pouchitis. Short courses of antibiotics are safe; however it is recognized that antibiotic exposure may have effects on the underlying microbiome including patterns of genetic resistance that may play a role in the physiology of the pouch and may have long-term implications.32 All antibiotics are associated with specific side effects. For example, ciprofloxacin has been associated with increased risk of tendonitis and tendon rupture. However, in the absence of effective alternative therapies for intermittent bouts of pouchitis, withholding antibiotics for pouchitis may significantly impact quality of life.8 Rationale—Most patients experience infrequent episodes of pouchitis which respond well to short courses of antibiotic therapy. Much of our understanding of the treatment of infrequent episodes of pouchitis has been experiential rather than based on large RCTs or comparative effectiveness studies. Multiple antibiotic therapies have been used
