HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pouchitis, patients, author manuscript, author, manuscript, antibiotics, therapies, chronic, treatment, pouch, evidence, manuscript author, therapy, disease, use


of our understanding of the treatment of infrequent episodes of pouchitis has been experiential rather than based on large RCTs or comparative effectiveness studies. Multiple antibiotic therapies have been used for the treatment of pouchitis, however ciprofloxacin and metronidazole remain the most well studied and most commonly used antibiotics for intermittent pouchitis. In one cohort study, vancomycin 125 mg orally twice daily demonstrated effectiveness in this setting,33 however most patients in this cohort had been treated with multiple other antibiotic therapies and thus it is not known if vancomycin would be more effective if used earlier in the treatment algorithm. Rifaximin has also been evaluated as a treatment for intermittent pouchitis in one pilot trial, where patients treated with rifaximin demonstrated a numerically greater (although not statistically significant) increase in clinical remission compared to placebo.34 Several other factors should be considered when choosing an antibiotic for the treatment of pouchitis. Medication allergies and prior tolerance of antibiotics may inform antibiotic selection. The standard recommended duration of ciprofloxacin and metronidazole has been 2-weeks.35 Ciprofloxacin 500 mg orally twice daily and metronidazole 500 mg orally twice Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript or 3 times daily, for 2 weeks, is the standard practice of the guideline panel; ciprofloxacin may generally be better tolerated than metronidazole.36 Although expert opinion indicates that some gastroenterologists may choose a 4-week course,16 or a combination of antibiotics (such as ciprofloxacin and metronidazole) for an initial episode of pouchitis, both of these approaches have typically been reserved for patients with incomplete response to an initial treatment or recurrent episodes of pouchitis.37 Question 4. In adult outpatients with pouchitis, what is the effectiveness of probiotics for the treatment of pouchitis? Recommendation 4. In patients with ulcerative colitis who have undergone IPAA and experience infrequent episodes of pouchitis, the AGA makes no recommendation in favor of, or against, the use of probiotics for the treatment of pouchitis (No recommendation, knowledge gap). Summary and Certainty of the Evidence—We identified three studies (one RCT, two cohort studies) evaluating the effectiveness of probiotics for the treatment of pouchitis.38–40 All three cohorts utilized different probiotic formulations: one cohort used the De Simone formulation,38 one cohort used a combination of Lactobacillus and Bifidobacteriae41 and the RCT utilized Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG.40 The defined outcome in these three studies was clinical remission or response along with
