HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pouchitis, patients, author manuscript, author, manuscript, antibiotics, therapies, chronic, treatment, pouch, evidence, manuscript author, therapy, disease, use


one cohort used a combination of Lactobacillus and Bifidobacteriae41 and the RCT utilized Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG.40 The defined outcome in these three studies was clinical remission or response along with a predefined decrease in the endoscopic 76) (eFigure 3A). Assuming a spontaneous improvement rate of 40% (range, 30–50%) in patients with infrequent episodes of pouchitis, probiotics would be associated with 40% 1.12–1.86). In the single RCT evaluating the efficacy of probiotics for the treatment of pouchitis, 1/10 patients treated with Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG responded compared to 0/10 patients treated with placebo.40 The overall body of evidence was rated down for risk of bias in included studies; inconsistency due to diverse interventions and outcomes, use of a hypothetical placebo/spontaneous improvement rate; imprecision due to very low event rate; and concern for publication bias (very limited evidence base, despite widespread use and availability) leading to overall very low certainty of evidence (Table 8A). Benefits and Harms (Downsides)—Side effects are infrequent with probiotics and they are generally well tolerated. Probiotics can be expensive and may not be covered by insurance. The evidence demonstrating the potential benefits of probiotics in the treatment of pouchitis are limited to the 3 formulations and thus recommendations regarding other formulations cannot be made. Moreover, there is lack of regulatory requirements for over- the-counter probiotics since they are largely considered dietary supplements or medical may delay use of antibiotics, which have been consistently effective for treatment of pouchitis. Rationale—The benefit of probiotics for treatment of infrequent episodes of pouchitis is uncertain, with limited, very-low-quality evidence. In the collective experience of the Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript panel, probiotics in real-world practice have not been very effective for the treatment of pouchitis. In comparison to antibiotics as a treatment for intermittent pouchitis, although the relative risk was similar in magnitude with probiotics, there is greater body of evidence by the potential differences in the utility of different probiotic formulations, with limited studies demonstrating the effectiveness of specific formulations in this setting. Finally, given the demonstrated effectiveness of antibiotics in the treatment of pouchitis, there is potential that delaying therapy or using probiotics when they are not as effective as antibiotics may have significant impact on an individual patient’s quality of life. Larger, high-quality RCTs of probiotics, preferably comparing them against antibiotics such as ciprofloxacin, are warranted to better
