HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pouchitis, patients, author manuscript, author, manuscript, antibiotics, therapies, chronic, treatment, pouch, evidence, manuscript author, therapy, disease, use


as antibiotics may have significant impact on an individual patient’s quality of life. Larger, high-quality RCTs of probiotics, preferably comparing them against antibiotics such as ciprofloxacin, are warranted to better understand the role of probiotics for treatment of pouchitis. Question 5. In adult outpatients with pouchitis, what is the effectiveness of probiotics for the prevention of recurrent pouchitis? Recommendation 5. In patients with ulcerative colitis who have undergone IPAA and experience recurrent episodes of pouchitis that respond to antibiotics, the AGA suggests using probiotics for preventing recurrent pouchitis (Conditional recommendation, low certainty of evidence). Comment: Patients, particularly those with infrequent episodes of recurrent pouchitis or where the burden of long-term probiotic treatment is excessive, may reasonably choose avoiding any treatment to prevent recurrence of pouchitis. Implementation consideration • De Simone formulation of multi-strain probiotics was used in clinical trials of prevention of pouchitis. Summary and Certainty of the Evidence—We identified three RCTs29, 42, 43 evaluating the efficacy of the De Simone formulation to prevent the relapse of pouchitis in patients with antibiotic-responsive pouchitis. On meta-analysis, use of probiotics was associated with 87% lower risk of relapse over 12 months (6/45 vs. 36/41; RR, 0.17; 95% CI, 0.09–0.34) (eFigure 3B). The overall body of evidence was rated as low-quality, being rated down for imprecision due to low event rate and suspected publication bias (limited high efficacy observed in clinical trials) (Table 8B). Benefits and Harms (Downsides)—Recurrent pouchitis significantly impacts patients’ quality-of-life, and is associated with increased healthcare costs and utilization;8. By reducing the incidence of recurrent pouchitis, probiotics can favorably impact these outcomes. However, there is limited data on cost-effectiveness of long-term probiotic therapy. As noted previously, the cost of probiotics may be prohibitive for some patients. Individual patients’ and providers’ threshold for establishing how many episodes of pouchitis are too-frequent, may vary, and this would influence their acceptance of long-term probiotic therapy. Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Rationale—The body of evidence favoring the use of probiotics for preventing recurrence of pouchitis is limited to the De Simone formulation, and to patients who are antibiotic- responsive. In these RCTs, patients were treated with an initial course of antibiotics and required to achieve remission prior to initiating probiotic therapy, providing a potential month of ciprofloxacin 1 g daily and rifaximin 2 g daily was used to achieve clinical and endoscopic
