HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pouchitis, patients, author manuscript, author, manuscript, antibiotics, therapies, chronic, treatment, pouch, evidence, manuscript author, therapy, disease, use


required to achieve remission prior to initiating probiotic therapy, providing a potential month of ciprofloxacin 1 g daily and rifaximin 2 g daily was used to achieve clinical and endoscopic remission prior to randomization to receive De Simone formulation 6 g per day or placebo.42 Similarly, in the study by Mimura and colleagues, patients with active recurrent or refractory pouchitis were treated with a combination of metronidazole 400 mg or 500 mg twice daily and ciprofloxacin 500 mg twice daily for 4 weeks. Those patients who achieved a combined clinical and endoscopic remission were randomized to receive De Simone formulation 6 g per day or placebo.43 In contrast to these 2 studies, Pronio et al. conducted a randomized, open-label parallel-arm trial assessing the efficacy of the De Simone formulation among patients at different periods after surgery who were not taking any medications at study entry.29 The thresholds for defining frequency of recurrence in patients with recurrent pouchitis may vary. While those patients who experience multiple recurrent episodes of pouchitis annually (or experience continuous symptoms in the absence of therapy) are more likely to desire chronic preventive therapy with probiotics, the efficacy of probiotics in these situations is unclear. In the collective experience of the panel members, use of these probiotics has not been associated with a large reduction in risk of recurrent pouchitis as seen in RCTs. Question 6. In adult outpatients with pouchitis who have adequate response to antibiotics, but relapse shortly after stopping antibiotics, what is the effectiveness of using chronic antibiotic therapy to treat recurrent pouchitis? Recommendation 6. In patients with ulcerative colitis who have undergone IPAA, and experience recurrent pouchitis that responds to antibiotics but relapses shortly after stopping antibiotics (commonly referred to as chronic antibiotic-dependent pouchitis), the AGA suggests using chronic antibiotic therapy to treat recurrent pouchitis (Conditional recommendation, very low certainty of evidence). Implementation consideration • The panel suggests endoscopic evaluation of the pouch with confirmation of inflammation and ruling out alternative etiologies in patients with recurrent pouchitis. • Lowest effective dose of antibiotics (for example, ciprofloxacin 500mg daily or 250mg twice daily) with intermittent gap periods (such as approximately one week/month), or use of cyclical antibiotics (such as rotating between ciprofloxacin, metronidazole, vancomycin, etc. every 1–2 weeks) may be considered to decrease risk of antimicrobial resistance. Summary and Certainty of the Evidence—There is a paucity of studies evaluating the effectiveness of chronic antibiotic
