HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pouchitis, patients, author manuscript, author, manuscript, antibiotics, therapies, chronic, treatment, pouch, evidence, manuscript author, therapy, disease, use


etc. every 1–2 weeks) may be considered to decrease risk of antimicrobial resistance. Summary and Certainty of the Evidence—There is a paucity of studies evaluating the effectiveness of chronic antibiotic therapy in patients experiencing frequent episodes Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript of recurrent pouchitis, which relapses shortly after stopping antibiotics. As noted in PICO #3, antibiotics are very effective in treatment of infrequent episodes of pouchitis. In the collective experience of the panel, chronic antibiotic use in patients whose disease relapses shortly after stopping antibiotics is effective in preventing recurrent episodes. The overall body of evidence was rated as very-low certainty, given indirectness in applying findings from very low quality evidence supporting the use of antibiotics for treatment of infrequent episodes of pouchitis. Benefits and Harms (Downsides)—Chronic antibiotic use has been associated with increased rates of antimicrobial resistance, colonization with drug-resistant organisms, disruption of normal gut flora and potentially increasing the risk of chronic diseases such as diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, and cancers, besides risks with individual antibiotics such as neuropathy with chronic metronidazole use and tendinopathy with chronic ciprofloxacin use. There are limited studies on the safety of chronic antibiotic use in patients with recurrent pouchitis. In a cohort of 205 patients, 167 (81.5%) used antibiotics at some point for pouchitis with long-term antibiotic use increasing from 18% at 5 years post-IPAA to 42% at 20 years post-IPAA.44 In this analysis, there was no association between antibiotic use and the development of resistant infections, with overall adverse event rates for the most common antibiotics utilized being low (ciprofloxacin 1 per 10,000 use-days and metronidazole 6 per 10,000 use-days). Chronic antibiotic therapy may not significantly increase the risk of Clostridiodes difficile infection in patients with IPAA.45 Rationale—There is marked variability in frequency of recurrent pouchitis, with some patients experiencing infrequent pouchitis, others experiencing episodes every 2–4 months, and yet others experiencing near continuous symptoms of pouchitis. Patients’ preference for treatment may vary depending on the frequency of these episodes, their impact on quality of life, as well as the effectiveness, safety and tolerability of the proposed treatment. Historically, chronic antibiotic-dependent pouchitis has defined as greater than 3 episodes of pouchitis per year. However, in the collective experience of the panel, and with input from the participating patient stakeholder, chronic antibiotic therapy may not be warranted or acceptable to patients
