HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pouchitis, patients, author manuscript, author, manuscript, antibiotics, therapies, chronic, treatment, pouch, evidence, manuscript author, therapy, disease, use


pouchitis per year. However, in the collective experience of the panel, and with input from the participating patient stakeholder, chronic antibiotic therapy may not be warranted or acceptable to patients who experience episodes of pouchitis every 2–4 months, where they may prefer intermittent antibiotic therapy for 6–12 weeks per year. Chronic antibiotic therapy may be more acceptable and applicable to patients who experience near constant symptoms of pouchitis, which relapse within days to weeks of stopping antibiotics. To minimize risk of antibiotic-resistant bacteria and side effects associated with long-term antibiotic use, the panel suggested that the lowest dose of antibiotics (such as ciprofloxacin 500 mg daily or 250 mg twice daily), or cyclical course of antibiotics (cycling from one antibiotic to another every 1–2 weeks), with intermittent periods off antibiotics (approximately 1 week per month) may be helpful to consider. The response to such an approach will likely be guided by both the patient’s symptoms (i.e., how a patient feels when on a low-dose of antibiotics, different antibiotics on a cyclical course of antibiotics, and in the time period off antibiotics) as well as objective data that a gastroenterologist and the patient have established as a reliable method of disease monitoring. Although ciprofloxacin and metronidazole are established as the most common initial approaches to the treatment of acute or intermittent pouchitis, multiple antibiotic regimens can be used in the treatment Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript of chronic or recurrent pouchitis.46 Communicating both the need for chronic antibiotics as well as the rationale for chronic antibiotics is paramount to ensuring patient compliance with a prescribed regimen as well as appropriate feedback if antibiotic therapy is not effective. Question 7. In adult outpatients with pouchitis who have adequate response to antibiotics, but relapse shortly after stopping antibiotics, what is the effectiveness of using advanced immunosuppressive therapies to treat recurrent pouchitis? Recommendation 7. In patients with ulcerative colitis who have undergone IPAA, and experience recurrent pouchitis which responds to antibiotics but relapses shortly after stopping antibiotics (commonly referred to as chronic antibiotic-dependent pouchitis), the AGA suggests using advanced immunosuppressive therapies to treat recurrent pouchitis (Conditional recommendation, very low certainty of evidence). Implementation consideration • The panel suggests endoscopic evaluation of the pouch with confirmation of inflammation and ruling out alternative etiologies in patients with recurrent pouchitis. • Advanced immunosuppressive therapies approved
