HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pouchitis, patients, author manuscript, author, manuscript, antibiotics, therapies, chronic, treatment, pouch, evidence, manuscript author, therapy, disease, use


Implementation consideration • The panel suggests endoscopic evaluation of the pouch with confirmation of inflammation and ruling out alternative etiologies in patients with recurrent pouchitis. • Advanced immunosuppressive therapies approved for treatment of UC or CD may be used, including TNF-α antagonists (infliximab, adalimumab, golimumab, certolizumab pegol), vedolizumab, ustekinumab, risankizumab, ozanimod, tofacitinib and upadacitinib. Vedolizumab is the only advanced therapy to date that has received regulatory approval from the European Medical Agency for this indication. • Advanced immunosuppressive therapies may be used in lieu of chronic, continuous antibiotic therapy, particularly in patients who are intolerant to antibiotics or where patients and/or providers are concerned about risks of long-term antibiotic therapy. • Advanced immunosuppressive therapies that patients have used prior to colectomy may be reconsidered. Summary and Certainty of the Evidence—In the EARNEST trial evaluating the efficacy of vedolizumab for the treatment of chronic pouchitis, patients were treated with concomitant oral ciprofloxacin 500 mg twice daily from randomization through week 4 of the study, and 53% of patients reported continuous use of antibiotics immediately before the baseline visit.14 In this trial, 18/51 patients receiving vedolizumab achieved mPDAI-remission at week 14 compared to 5/51 patients receiving placebo; data was not specifically presented for a subset of patients with chronic antibiotic-dependent pouchitis, although ~21% patients continued to require at week 34 after initiation of vedolizumab. When this RCT was considered separately, evidence was rated as low certainty (rated down for very serious imprecision due to low event rate). Data on the effectiveness of advanced immunosuppressive therapies in patients with chronic antibiotic-dependent pouchitis and chronic antibiotic-refractory pouchitis was not presented separately. We opted to analyze data for all advanced therapies together as observational studies, and identified Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 31 cohort studies evaluating the effectiveness of advanced immunosuppressive therapies in patients with chronic pouchitis,14, 47–72 including patients with chronic antibiotic-dependent pouchitis as well as chronic antibiotic-refractory pouchitis. On pooled analysis of 31 cohort studies, the overall response rate with advanced immunosuppressive therapies was 50% (95% CI, 43–57; 287/560 patients) (eFigure 4). Assuming a spontaneous improvement rate (or placebo response rate) of 30% (lower limit 20% and upper limit 40%) in patients with chronic antibiotic-dependent pouchitis, use of advanced therapies was 71% more effective than no intervention (95% CI 1.28–2.56). The overall body of evidence was rated as very low certainty,
