HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pouchitis, patients, author manuscript, author, manuscript, antibiotics, therapies, chronic, treatment, pouch, evidence, manuscript author, therapy, disease, use


patients with chronic antibiotic-dependent pouchitis, use of advanced therapies was 71% more effective than no intervention (95% CI 1.28–2.56). The overall body of evidence was rated as very low certainty, derived primarily from observational studies, at high risk of bias with use of non-standard outcome metrics, inconsistency due to diversity of patients evaluated, along with varying levels of disease severity and antibiotic-refractoriness, and use of a hypothetical spontaneous improvement rate (Table 9). Benefits and Harms (Downsides)—Advanced immunosuppressive therapies are effective in treating chronic antibiotic-dependent pouchitis. These immunosuppressive therapies may also be effective in treating extra-intestinal manifestations that may be associated with chronic pouchitis in some patients. The safety profile of different types of immunosuppressive therapies has been well-established in patients with UC and CD. They may increase the risk of serious infections, some malignancies such as lymphoma, with risks varying with different therapies. Adverse events unique to the use of these advanced therapies in patients with recurrent pouchitis have not been identified. In the absence of effective therapy, patients with chronic antibiotic-dependent pouchitis would require chronic antibiotic therapy. We did not identify any evidence specifically comparing the effectiveness and safety of these therapies compared with chronic, continuous antibiotic therapy, in patients who experience near-continuous symptoms of pouchitis. The avoidance of long- term antibiotics may be particularly appealing to patients with a history of intolerance or allergic reactions to antibiotic therapy or those that are concerned about the long-term risks of antibiotic exposure. Although the risk of adverse events associated directly with chronic antibiotic use appears low, individual patients and providers may place greater value on these risks for antimicrobial resistance and changes in the microbiome and thus prefer earlier introduction of advanced immunosuppressive therapy. In the experience of the guideline panel, some patients who initiate immunosuppressive therapy are unable to completely discontinue antibiotics and may still require intermittent courses of antibiotics; in the EARNEST trial, approximately one in five patients with chronic pouchitis continued to require antibiotics at week 34. Rationale—While there is considerable paucity of published evidence on the effectiveness and safety of chronic, long-term antibiotic therapy for patients with chronic antibiotic- dependent pouchitis, we identified several cohort studies as well as the recent EARNEST demonstrating high effectiveness of advanced immunosuppressive therapies in these patients. In addition to the available studies demonstrating the effectiveness of advanced therapies in the treatment of recurrent pouchitis, this recommendation is also informed by
