HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pouchitis, patients, author manuscript, author, manuscript, antibiotics, therapies, chronic, treatment, pouch, evidence, manuscript author, therapy, disease, use


advanced immunosuppressive therapies in these patients. In addition to the available studies demonstrating the effectiveness of advanced therapies in the treatment of recurrent pouchitis, this recommendation is also informed by treatment experience with both UC and CD where the use of these therapies is well established. Large, comparative studies of advanced immunosuppressive therapies and chronic antibiotic use are warranted to better inform optimal treatment approach in patients Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript with chronic antibiotic-dependent pouchitis. In retrospective analyses, 29–39% of patients with acute pouchitis progress to chronic pouchitis in a median interval of 0.6–1.1 years after acute pouchitis diagnosis.73, 74 Among patients who develop chronic pouchitis, 23% initiate biologic therapy within 10 days of diagnosis.73 However, it is unclear what proportion of patients with chronic antibiotic-dependent pouchitis may evolve into chronic antibiotic- refractory pouchitis, Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch and pouch failure, and whether early use of advanced immunosuppressive therapies may be able to decrease this risk. A small subset of patients with refractory pouchitis and pouch failure may require pouch excision. Question 8. In adult outpatients with pouchitis who have inadequate response to antibiotics, what is the effectiveness of advanced immunosuppressive therapies? Recommendation 8. In patients with ulcerative colitis who have undergone IPAA, and experience recurrent pouchitis with inadequate response to antibiotics (commonly referred to as chronic antibiotic-refractory pouchitis), the AGA suggests using advanced immunosuppressive therapies (Conditional recommendation, low [vedolizumab] to very low certainty of evidence [other advanced immunosuppressive therapies]). Implementation considerations • The panel suggests endoscopic evaluation of the pouch with confirmation of inflammation and ruling out alternative etiologies in patients with recurrent pouchitis. • Immunosuppressive therapies approved for treatment of ulcerative colitis or Crohn’s disease may be used, including TNF-α antagonists (infliximab, adalimumab, golimumab, certolizumab pegol), vedolizumab, ustekinumab, risankizumab, ozanimod, tofacitinib and upadacitinib. Vedolizumab is the only advanced therapy to date that has received regulatory approval from the European Medical Agency for this indication. • Advanced therapies that patients have used prior to colectomy may be reconsidered. • A subset of patients may continue to derive partial symptomatic benefit from antibiotics and may benefit from ongoing use of antibiotics besides advanced immunosuppressive therapies. Summary and Certainty of the Evidence—We identified two RCTs conducted evaluating the efficacy of biologic therapies in the treatment of chronic pouchitis (vedolizumab14 and adalimumab75). In the RCT of adalimumab, 3/6
