HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pouchitis, patients, author manuscript, author, manuscript, antibiotics, therapies, chronic, treatment, pouch, evidence, manuscript author, therapy, disease, use


differences were identified in response rate with different advanced therapies (p=0.24). Benefits and Harms (Downsides)—Continuous symptoms of pouchitis that are refractory to antibiotic therapy have significant impact on quality-of-life. In addition, chronic antibiotic-refractory pouchitis is one of the most common causes of pouch failure.16 Hence, inadequate treatment of antibiotic-refractory pouchitis or delays in appropriate therapy may have significant downstream consequences for individual patients. There is considerable experience with advanced immunosuppressive therapies for UC and CD, confirming overall safety of these therapies, although they are associated with increase in risk of serious infections, and some malignancies such as lymphoma, with risk varying between different therapies. Adverse events unique to the use of these advanced therapies in patients with recurrent pouchitis have not been identified. Rationale—In examining the effectiveness of advanced therapies in the treatment of recurrent pouchitis, it was important to not only define pouchitis that is not responsive to antibiotics but also to examine the underlying physiology in comparison to other pouch-related disorders. Although symptoms of intermittent pouchitis are believed to be mediated by changes in the microbiota,16, 32, 76 chronic pouchitis may be mediated through immunological mechanisms.77–79 In a recent evaluation, a computational algorithm using microRNA expression profiles in conjunction with clinical factors demonstrated high levels of accuracy in predicting patients who would develop chronic pouchitis.77 A prior meta-analysis has also suggested an increased risk of chronic pouchitis among patients who were ANCA-positive,78 however these studies did not further stratify chronic pouchitis based on antibiotic responsiveness. Genetic polymorphisms such as the NOD2insc variant have also been associated with an increased risk for chronic pouchitis.79 Given the apparent effectiveness of biologic and other immunosuppressive therapies in the Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript treatment of chronic pouchitis that is not responsive to antibiotics, it would appear that the underlying immunologic mechanisms may be similar to those in UC and CD. An improved understanding of the risk factors for chronic pouchitis and the underlying pathophysiology may allow for earlier introduction of effective therapy in those at the highest risk of developing this phenotype. Several advanced immunosuppressive therapies have been used for the treatment of antibiotic-refractory pouchitis. The efficacy of vedolizumab in patients with recurrent pouchitis was established in EARNEST, a RCT comparing 51 patients treated with vedolizumab to 51 treated with placebo.14 To be eligible, patients were required to have
