HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pouchitis, patients, author manuscript, author, manuscript, antibiotics, therapies, chronic, treatment, pouch, evidence, manuscript author, therapy, disease, use


in patients with recurrent pouchitis was established in EARNEST, a RCT comparing 51 patients treated with vedolizumab to 51 treated with placebo.14 To be eligible, patients were required to have at least 3 recurrent episodes of pouchitis in the 12 months prior to the screening visit which were treated with antibiotics or other prescription therapies, or treated with continuous antibiotics for at least 4 weeks immediately before the baseline endoscopy visit. All enrolled patients received concomitant oral ciprofloxacin 500 mg twice daily from randomization through week 4, with additional antibiotics permitted for pouchitis symptoms that occurred after week 14 of the study. The primary endpoint of EARNEST was modified pouchitis disease activity index17 (mPDAI)-defined remission at week 14 (mPDAI score of ≤4 and a reduction from baseline of ≥2 points in the total mPDAI score). Of note, among 51 patients treated with vedolizumab, 57% reported continuous use of antibiotics immediately before baseline with 22.2% and 21.2% of patients continuing to use antibiotics at week 14 and week 34 assessments, respectively. While vedolizumab was the only therapy studied in a rigorous RCT, it was slow to recruit highlighting challenges in generating high quality evidence in this field. We relied on observational studies to inform the effectiveness of other advanced immunosuppressive therapies, which demonstrated similar response rates to those observed in the RCT. We opted not to infer on relative efficacy of one medication over others or recommend the use of one medication over others. Future prospective studies will be informative on the appropriate positioning and sequencing of these therapies in patients with refractory pouchitis. Based on our review of available literature, it may be reasonable to reconsider advanced therapies that individual patients have utilized prior to undergoing colectomy for UC. Whether the recycling or reuse of these advanced therapies (or the same class of therapies) is associated with decreased effectiveness has not been definitively demonstrated to date. In early evaluations of the effectiveness of using TNFα antagonist therapy for the treatment of Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch in patients who had received TNFα antagonist therapy prior to colectomy, 71% of patients responded to repeat use of this drug class after IPAA.80 More recent evaluations have suggested the potential for decreased effectiveness of biologic therapies when recycling therapies or mechanisms.48, 81 In one retrospective study, acute infusion reactions or delayed hypersensitivity reactions were common reasons for discontinuation of infliximab therapy among patients
