HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pouchitis, patients, author manuscript, author, manuscript, antibiotics, therapies, chronic, treatment, pouch, evidence, manuscript author, therapy, disease, use


of biologic therapies when recycling therapies or mechanisms.48, 81 In one retrospective study, acute infusion reactions or delayed hypersensitivity reactions were common reasons for discontinuation of infliximab therapy among patients being treated for chronic antibiotic- refractory pouchitis with a history of infliximab therapy prior to colectomy.60 In a separate evaluation of patients with chronic inflammatory conditions of the pouch receiving biologic therapy, patients who received TNFα antagonists prior to colectomy and after IPAA were less likely to achieve clinical remission compared to those patients who were TNFα antagonist-naïve or were treated with a different class of therapy post-IPAA (OR, 2.0; 95% CI, 0.06–0.61).48 Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Question 9. In adult outpatients with pouchitis who have inadequate response to antibiotics, what is the effectiveness of corticosteroids? Recommendation 9. In patients with ulcerative colitis who have undergone IPAA, and experience recurrent pouchitis with inadequate response to antibiotics (commonly referred to as chronic antibiotic-refractory pouchitis), the AGA suggests using corticosteroids (Conditional recommendation, very low certainty of evidence) Implementation considerations • Controlled ileal-release budesonide is the preferred corticosteroid formulation. • Corticosteroids should generally be used for a short duration (<8–12 weeks) with consideration of steroid-sparing therapies for long-term use. • The panel suggests endoscopic evaluation of the pouch with confirmation of inflammation and ruling out alternative etiologies in patients with recurrent pouchitis. Summary and Certainty of the Evidence—We identified two cases series,82, 83 including a total of 30 patients with antibiotic-refractory pouchitis, who received oral beclomethasone (n=10) or oral budesonide therapy (n=20). Of these, 23 patients achieved a hypothetical spontaneous improvement rate of 30% (range, 20–40%) in patients with recurrent episodes of pouchitis with inadequate response to antibiotics, corticosteroids are CI, 1.91–3.83). The overall body of evidence was rated as very low certainty, derived primarily from observational studies, at high risk of bias with use of non-standard outcome levels of disease severity and antibiotic-refractoriness, and use of a hypothetical spontaneous improvement rate, and imprecision, due to very low event rate (Table 10A). Benefits and Harms (Downsides)—Improvement in symptoms of pouchitis symptoms is an important benefit of corticosteroids, for example, when using an interim therapy to bridge to more advanced immunosuppressive therapies. However, these benefits are to be weighed against potential harms associated with repeated and/or prolonged courses of corticosteroid therapy, especially when using systemic corticosteroids. Rationale—There is paucity of evidence
