HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pouchitis, patients, author manuscript, author, manuscript, antibiotics, therapies, chronic, treatment, pouch, evidence, manuscript author, therapy, disease, use


therapies. However, these benefits are to be weighed against potential harms associated with repeated and/or prolonged courses of corticosteroid therapy, especially when using systemic corticosteroids. Rationale—There is paucity of evidence on the effectiveness of corticosteroids in patients with chronic antibiotic-refractory pouchitis, with only two reported case series with 30 patients. Considering the effectiveness of corticosteroid therapy in patients with UC and CD, it would be reasonable to consider for short-term symptomatic management. While we did not identify any specific studies on rectal corticosteroids, corticosteroid foam or enema formulations may also be effective. When initiating corticosteroids, careful discussion and planning for steroid-sparing therapy should be initiated. Use of, and responsiveness to, corticosteroids is not mandatory prior to switching to advanced immunosuppressive Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript therapies in patients with chronic antibiotic-refractory pouchitis and objective evidence of inflammation of the pouch. Given that budesonide, which undergoes first pass metabolism in the liver and is therefore better tolerated and safer than other systemic corticosteroids, has been studied in the context of pouchitis, and is released in the terminal ileum which is used to create the pouch, we suggest its use over other corticosteroids. The long-term use of budesonide in CD appears to be safe.84 Question 10. In adult outpatients with pouchitis who have inadequate response to antibiotics, what is the effectiveness of mesalamine? Recommendation 10. In patients with ulcerative colitis who have undergone IPAA, and experience with recurrent pouchitis with inadequate response to antibiotics (commonly referred to as chronic antibiotic-refractory pouchitis), the AGA suggests against the use of mesalamine for treatment of pouchitis (No recommendation, knowledge gap). Implementation considerations • While sulfasalazine may be effective in patients with infrequent episodes of pouchitis, its effectiveness in patients with chronic antibiotic-refractory pouchitis is unknown. Summary and Certainty of the Evidence—We did not identify any studies evaluating the effectiveness of mesalamine for the treatment of pouchitis. We identified one case series evaluating the use of sulfasalazine in the treatment of acute pouchitis, where acute pouchitis was defined as a PDAI > 7 lasting less than 4 weeks.85 As such, the patients treated in this cohort did not necessarily have antibiotic-dependent or antibiotic-refractory pouchitis. In this pilot study of 11 patients, where patients received sulfasalazine 3g by mouth daily assessment. With a hypothetical spontaneous improvement rate of 40% (range, 30–50%) sulfasalazine may be associated
