HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pouchitis, patients, author manuscript, author, manuscript, antibiotics, therapies, chronic, treatment, pouch, evidence, manuscript author, therapy, disease, use


In this pilot study of 11 patients, where patients received sulfasalazine 3g by mouth daily assessment. With a hypothetical spontaneous improvement rate of 40% (range, 30–50%) sulfasalazine may be associated with 2.5-fold higher likelihood of clinical improvement (RR, 2.50; 95% CI, 2.00–3.33). The overall certainty of evidence was rated as very low, rated down for risk of bias in a small case series, indirectness (effectiveness would likely be lower in patients with chronic antibiotic-refractory pouchitis, compared with patients included in this trial with acute pouchitis), and imprecision due to very low event rate (Table 10B). Benefits and Harms (Downsides)—Mesalamine is a very safe medication; however, there is paucity of evidence attesting to its effectiveness in patients with pouchitis, particularly those with antibiotic-refractory pouchitis. The use of mesalamine for the treatment of recurrent or chronic pouchitis may potentially delay the initiation of potentially more effective therapies. The potential benefits of sulfasalazine demonstrated in this pilot study indicate that sulfasalazine may have a role in the treatment of acute pouchitis. Whether this extends to the treatment of antibiotic-refractory pouchitis is unknown. Additionally, there may be harms related to the use of sulfasalazine itself including known adverse effects such as headache, nausea, rash, fever, and reversible issues with male fertility, and need for frequent laboratory monitoring.86 Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Rationale—The effects of sulfasalazine in the treatment of pouchitis may be due to inherent properties of sulfasalazine, including the potential anti-microbial effect of the sulfa components of sulfasalazine. Thus, it is unknown whether these same benefits will extend to mesalamine, or to patients with antibiotic-refractory pouchitis. TREATMENT OF CROHN’S-LIKE DISEASE OF THE POUCH Question 11. In adult outpatients with Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch, what is the effectiveness of corticosteroids? Recommendation 11. In patients with ulcerative colitis who have undergone IPAA, and develop symptoms due to Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch, the AGA suggests using corticosteroids (Conditional recommendation, very low certainty of evidence) Implementation considerations • Controlled ileal-release budesonide is the preferred corticosteroid formulation. • Corticosteroids should generally be used for a short duration (<8 weeks) with consideration of steroid-sparing therapies for long-term use. • The panel suggests endoscopic evaluation of the pouch to confirm Crohn’s- like disease of the pouch. Summary and Certainty of the Evidence—We did not identify any studies on the effectiveness or safety of corticosteroids for
