HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pouchitis, patients, author manuscript, author, manuscript, antibiotics, therapies, chronic, treatment, pouch, evidence, manuscript author, therapy, disease, use


of the pouch to confirm Crohn’s- like disease of the pouch. Summary and Certainty of the Evidence—We did not identify any studies on the effectiveness or safety of corticosteroids for Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch. Based on indirect data on the effectiveness of corticosteroids in patients with moderate to severe luminal CD, very low certainty evidence suggests it would be effective in patients with Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch.87 Benefits and Harms (Downsides)—Improvement in symptoms due to Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch is an important benefit of corticosteroids, for example, when using an interim therapy to bridge to more advanced therapies. However, these benefits are to be weighed against potential harms associated with repeated and/or prolonged courses of corticosteroid therapy, especially when using systemic corticosteroids. Rationale—There is paucity of evidence on the effectiveness of corticosteroids in patients with Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch. However, given extensive experience and evidence on the efficacy of systemic steroids as well as high first-pass metabolism corticosteroids such as controlled ileal release budesonide in patients with luminal CD, these medications are likely to be effective in the management of Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch. Question 12. In adult outpatients with Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch, what is the effectiveness of advanced therapies (biologics and oral small molecule drugs)? Recommendation 12. In patients with ulcerative colitis who have undergone IPAA and develop symptoms due to Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch, the AGA suggests using Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript advanced immunosuppressive therapies (Conditional recommendation, very low certainty of evidence). Implementation considerations • Immunosuppressive therapies approved for treatment of UC or CD may be used, including TNFα antagonists (infliximab, adalimumab, golimumab, certolizumab pegol), vedolizumab, ustekinumab, risankizumab, ozanimod, tofacitinib and upadacitinib. • Advanced therapies that patients have used prior to colectomy may be reconsidered. • A subset of patients may continue to require chronic antibiotics for associated pouchitis and ongoing symptom management despite the use of advanced immunosuppressive therapies. • The panel suggests endoscopic evaluation of the pouch to confirm Crohn’s- like disease of the pouch. Summary and Certainty of the Evidence—We identified 10 cohort studies or case series examining the use of advanced therapies in the treatment of Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch.53, 54, 88–95 Across these studies, the most common diagnostic criteria for Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch included one of the following features:
