HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pouchitis, patients, author manuscript, author, manuscript, antibiotics, therapies, chronic, treatment, pouch, evidence, manuscript author, therapy, disease, use


the treatment of Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch.53, 54, 88–95 Across these studies, the most common diagnostic criteria for Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch included one of the following features: a fistula or fistulae that occur 6–12 months after IPAA, the presence of a structure in the pre-pouch ileum or often included in this definition of response as well. Of 288 patients evaluated, the pooled response rate with advanced immunosuppressive therapies for Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch was 74% (95% CI, 68–79) (eFigure 5). With a hypothetical spontaneous improvement rate of 30% (range, 20–40%), in patients with Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch, patients treated with advanced immunosuppressive therapies were 2.5-fold more likely to achieve by the established efficacy of advanced immunosuppressive therapies in patients’ luminal and fistulizing CD. The overall body of evidence was rated as very low certainty, derived primarily from observational studies, at high risk of bias with use of non-standard outcome metrics, inconsistency due to diversity of patients evaluated, with varying levels of disease severity and prior treatment exposures, and use of a hypothetical spontaneous improvement rate (Table 11). Benefits and Harms (Downsides)—The potential benefits of advanced immunosuppressive therapies in the treatment of Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch are studies. There is considerable experience with advanced immunosuppressive therapies for Crohn’s disease, and borrowing from this body of evidence, these therapies are associated with increase in risk of serious infections, malignancies such as lymphoma and drug-specific Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript side effects, with risk varying between different therapies. Adverse events unique to the use of these advanced therapies in patients with Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch have not been identified. Rationale—An estimated 10% of patients will develop Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch after proctocolectomy with IPAA for UC. Patients do not have to be diagnosed with acute pouchitis (and then chronic pouchitis) to progress to a diagnosis of Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch. Some patients may initially present with strictures, fistulae or more advanced disease indicating a Crohn’s-like disease phenotype rather than intermittent pouch inflammation typical of pouchitis. Other patients with Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch may have concomitant chronic antibiotic-responsive pouchitis who will still respond to antibiotic therapy and require antibiotics intermittently for symptom management while being treated with an advanced therapy. These points highlight our limited understanding of both the disease process and
