HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pouchitis, patients, author manuscript, author, manuscript, antibiotics, therapies, chronic, treatment, pouch, evidence, manuscript author, therapy, disease, use


respond to antibiotic therapy and require antibiotics intermittently for symptom management while being treated with an advanced therapy. These points highlight our limited understanding of both the disease process and the management of Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch. In these patients, akin to luminal CD, advanced immunosuppressive therapies are effective for management. The evidence base supporting the use of advanced therapies is based on case series or cohort studies. No RCTs focusing on patients with Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch were identified. This is likely because of limited understanding of this entity, including its pathophysiology, and lack of agreement on nomenclature, definition, endoscopic and other diagnostic features limit standardization of inclusion and outcome measures. Whether an advanced therapy or mechanism of action that was used pre-colectomy for the treatment of UC can be re-used if a patient develops Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch is unknown at this time, and thus it may be reasonable to reconsider those advanced therapies that were not previously effective in the treatment of UC. It is also recognized that in many cases, patients treated for Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch will continue to require antibiotic therapy for concomitant pouchitis and symptom control, even when on advanced therapies. TREATMENT OF CUFFITIS Question 13. In adult outpatients with cuffitis, what is the effectiveness of pharmacological management? Recommendation 13. In patients with ulcerative colitis who have undergone IPAA, and develop symptoms due to cuffitis, the AGA suggests using therapies that have been approved for the treatment of ulcerative colitis, including topical 5-aminosalicylates, topical corticosteroids, etc. (Conditional recommendation, very low certainty of evidence) Implementation considerations • In patients with cuffitis, topical therapies should be the first-line therapy, such as mesalamine suppositories, corticosteroid suppositories or corticosteroid ointment applied directly to the cuff. • In patients with refractory cuffitis, immunosuppressive therapies approved for treatment of ulcerative colitis may be used, including TNFα antagonists Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript (infliximab, adalimumab, golimumab, certolizumab pegol), vedolizumab, ustekinumab, risankizumab, ozanimod, tofacitinib and upadacitinib. Summary and Certainty of the Evidence—There is paucity of direct data on the effectiveness of medical therapies for cuffitis. However, since the cuff is a remnant of the rectal mucosa after colectomy and ileal pouch anal anastomosis creation in UC, we extrapolated data from the prior AGA guidelines on the management of mild-moderate and moderate-severe UC to cuffitis.96 Based
