HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pouchitis, patients, author manuscript, author, manuscript, antibiotics, therapies, chronic, treatment, pouch, evidence, manuscript author, therapy, disease, use


mucosa after colectomy and ileal pouch anal anastomosis creation in UC, we extrapolated data from the prior AGA guidelines on the management of mild-moderate and moderate-severe UC to cuffitis.96 Based on indirect evidence, therapies approved for UC including topical and oral 5-ASA, topical and oral corticosteroids, thiopurines and advanced immunosuppressive therapies may be effective for the management of cuffitis. Benefits and Harms (Downsides)—The benefits and harms of each treatment would have to be individualized, considering the severity of cuffitis, impact on quality of life, effectiveness and safety of treatment option and patient preference. Rationale—Even though there are very limited studies on the management of cuffitis, it is likely similar to UC due to its underlying pathophysiology and is limited to a very short segment of the rectum. Use of oral or topical therapies, including topical corticosteroid cream applied directly to the cuff, besides suppositories may be effective in patients with mild to moderate symptoms of cuffitis. Cuffitis may often co-exist with pouchitis, and hence, treatment approach should be modified depending on predominant source of symptoms, and often requires therapies directed towards both cuffitis and pouchitis. FUTURE DIRECTIONS Even though pouchitis is relatively common after IPAA for UC, we observed that most of the evidence informing these guidelines was low to very low quality, derived from case series or small cohort studies, and several knowledge gaps exist. Several initiatives towards improving management of inflammatory pouch disorders are already underway. However, concerted efforts in key domains are central towards improving patient care. Key research and clinical gaps that will inform the field in the future include: 1. Standardization of disease entities: Several inflammatory and non- inflammatory disorders of the pouch are poorly defined, and for these guidelines, we relied on functional definitions based primarily on response to existing therapies. A deeper understanding of disease pathophysiology and clinical and endoscopic presentations will allow better controlled studies, and a more optimal categorization of diseases and treatment approaches. These include entities like chronic antibiotic-dependent pouchitis, chronic antibiotic-refractory pouchitis and Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch. 2. Natural history and risk factors for inflammatory disorders of the pouch: A deeper understanding of the natural history of pouches in patients with IPAA for UC, as well as evolution of intermittent and chronic pouchitis and Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch is warranted. Risk factors associated with the development of each of these entities may facilitate early intervention to prevent
