HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: pouchitis, patients, author manuscript, author, manuscript, antibiotics, therapies, chronic, treatment, pouch, evidence, manuscript author, therapy, disease, use


of intermittent and chronic pouchitis and Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch is warranted. Risk factors associated with the development of each of these entities may facilitate early intervention to prevent development Gastroenterology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2025 January 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript of these disorders, or more effective treatment to avoid disability; factors predictive of response to different therapies, likewise, can be very effective. This includes assessing the relevance of persistent inflammation in the pouch, in the absence of symptoms, and non-inflammatory drivers of symptoms in patients with IPAA. Additionally, the role of environmental exposures including diet on the disease course after IPAA remain a relatively unexplored area. 3. Improving clinical trial design in pouchitis: There was a marked paucity of heterogeneous patient groups, variable and non-validated disease activity indices and non-standard outcome definitions (such clinical improvement and clinical remission with or without ongoing use of antibiotics; endoscopic remission, etc.). More recently, with the publication of the pivotal EARNEST trial, there has been a move towards more standardized evaluation of pouchitis, development of disease activity indices (such as the Atlantic Pouchitis Index) and outcome definitions. Besides efficacy trials, large pragmatic trials comparing different therapies such as use of chronic antibiotics vs. advanced immunosuppressive therapies in patients with chronic antibiotic-dependent pouchitis, primary and secondary prevention strategies in patients at high risk of pouchitis, etc. are warranted. In lieu of trials, real-world evidence with well-conducted observational comparative effectiveness studies using prospective registries can also enrich the evidence. Non-invasive monitoring tests of pouch disorders can facilitate effectiveness trials. What do other societal guidelines say? There have been no recent societal guidelines published on the management of pouchitis. The most recent European Crohn’s and Colitis Organization guidelines covered the management of pouchitis in the “Third European Evidence-based Consensus on Diagnosis and Management of Ulcerative Colitis” published in 2017. Consistent with our guidelines, ECCO guidelines recommended the use of ciprofloxacin or metronidazole for acute pouchitis, and combination of two antibiotics, oral budesonide, oral beclomethasone dipropionate, infliximab or adalimumab for management of chronic pouchitis. However, these guidelines did not explicitly provide recommendations on primary or secondary prevention of pouchitis, role of chronic or alternative antibiotic therapy, other advanced immunosuppressive medications, or on the management of Crohn’s-like disease of the pouch. Plans for updating this guideline Guidelines are living products. To remain useful, they need to be updated regularly as new
