Reentrant (Paroxysmal) Supraventricular Tachycardias (PSVT)
KEYWORDS: tachycardia, reentrant, reentrant tachycardia, atrial, atrioventricular, nodal, accessory, pathway, qrs, conduction, antegrade, atrioventricular reentrant, connection, accessory connection, ecg


(Paroxysmal Supraventricular Tachycardia) Reentrant (paroxysmal) supraventricular tachycardias (PSVT) involve reentrant pathways with a component above the bifurcation of the His bundle. Subtypes include atrioventricular nodal reentrant tachycardia (AVNRT), atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia (AVRT) using an accessory pathway, atrial reentrant tachycardia, and sinus nodal reentrant tachycardia. Patients have sudden episodes of palpitations that begin and terminate abruptly; some have dyspnea or chest discomfort. Diagnosis is clinical and by electrocardiography. Initial treatment is usually with vagotonic maneuvers. If these maneuvers are ineffective, treatment is with IV adenosine or nondihydropyridine calcium channel blockers for narrow QRS rhythms or for wide QRS rhythms known to be a reentrant SVT with aberrant conduction that requires atrioventricular nodal conduction. Procainamide or amiodarone are effective for other wide QRS rhythms. Synchronized cardioversion can be done for all cases in which medications are ineffective or there is hemodynamic instability. Pathophysiology of Reentrant SVTs Reentrant (paroxysmal) supraventricular tachycardias are defined as the sudden-onset, sudden-offset, rapid (120 to 250 beats per minute), regular (successive RR interval variations ≤ 0.04 seconds), narrow QRS complex (or wide QRS complex with bundle branch block) tachycardias that are not sinus tachycardia, atrial fibrillation, or atrial flutter. So defined, the incidence of reentrant (paroxysmal) supraventricular tachycardia is approximately 35/100,000, and the prevalence is 2 to 3/1000 people in the United States (1). In adult patients, the proportions of subtypes are (2): Atrioventricular (AV) nodal reentrant tachycardia (AVNRT) (50% to 60%) Atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia (AVRT) using accessory bypass tract (20% to 30%) OR Atrial reentrant tachycardia and sinoatrial (SA) node reentrant tachycardia (10% to 15%) Atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia (AVRT) is the most common type seen in Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. In children, atrioventricular nodal reentrant tachycardia is much less common; atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia, atrial reentrant tachycardia, and junctional ectopic tachycardia are more common. Atrioventricular nodal reentrant tachycardia (AVNRT) AVNRT occurs most often in otherwise healthy people. It is most commonly triggered by an atrial premature beat. The AV node has multiple extensions that serve as routes for atrial activations to enter the AV node. In most people, the superior/anterior extension bypasses much of the AV node and the antegrade conduction time to the His-Purkinje system and ventricles is short (a fast pathway) while the inferior/posterior extension uses all of the AV node and the antegrade conduction time to the His- Purkinje system and ventricles is long (a slow pathway). The fast pathway tends to have a longer refractory period,
