Reentrant (Paroxysmal) Supraventricular Tachycardias (PSVT)
KEYWORDS: tachycardia, reentrant, reentrant tachycardia, atrial, atrioventricular, nodal, accessory, pathway, qrs, conduction, antegrade, atrioventricular reentrant, connection, accessory connection, ecg


the AV node and the antegrade conduction time to the His- Purkinje system and ventricles is long (a slow pathway). The fast pathway tends to have a longer refractory period, which blocks antegrade transmission of a premature atrial depolarization at longer AA intervals, while the slow pathway tends to have a shorter refractory period, which blocks antegrade transmission of a premature atrial depolarization at shorter AA intervals. At a premature atrial depolarization coupling interval longer than the refractory period of both pathways the antegrade transmission through the fast pathway reaches the His-Purkinje system and the ventricles while the antegrade transmission through the slow pathway finds the His-Purkinje system refractory, having just been activated by the fast pathway, and the slow pathway transmission is blocked. The ECG shows a normal PR interval for this beat. At a premature atrial depolarization coupling interval shorter than the refractory period of both pathways neither antegrade transmission reaches the His-Purkinje system and ventricles. The ECG shows a blocked premature atrial beat. At a premature atrial depolarization coupling interval less than the refractory period of the fast pathway but longer than the refractory period of the slow pathway, antegrade fast pathway transmission is blocked, but antegrade slow pathway conduction proceeds. The ECG shows a sudden increase in the PR interval for this beat (see figure Initiation of Atrioventricular Nodal Reentry Tachycardia). Initiation of an Atrioventricular Nodal Reentry Tachycardia There is an abnormal P wave (P′) and atrioventricular nodal delay (long P′R interval) before onset of the tachycardia. When antegrade conduction through the slow pathway is sufficiently slow, it can find the lower portion of the fast pathway ready to conduct, but now in the retrograde direction. When this retrograde fast pathway transmission finds the upper portion of the slow pathway ready to conduct again in the antegrade conduction, around-and-around AV nodal reentry occurs. The ECG then shows a rapid, regular, tachycardia. Such typical, or slow-fast, AV nodal reentry is the usual (90%) type of AV nodal reentry (2). Less commonly, and more often induced by a ventricular premature beat, the reentry occurs in the opposite direction (atypical or fast-slow AV nodal reentry). Atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia (AVRT) AVRT occurs in patients with an accessory AV connection and is the most common type seen in Wolff- Parkinson-White syndrome. It runs most commonly from an atrium to a ventricle and rarely from an atrium to a portion of the
