Reentrant (Paroxysmal) Supraventricular Tachycardias (PSVT)
KEYWORDS: tachycardia, reentrant, reentrant tachycardia, atrial, atrioventricular, nodal, accessory, pathway, qrs, conduction, antegrade, atrioventricular reentrant, connection, accessory connection, ecg


is the most common type seen in Wolff- Parkinson-White syndrome. It runs most commonly from an atrium to a ventricle and rarely from an atrium to a portion of the conduction system or from a portion of the conduction system to the ventricle. An accessory pathway connecting an atrium and a ventricle is the substrate for the Wolff- Parkinson-White syndrome. When the accessory AV connection conducts in the antegrade direction, the AV nodal delay is bypassed, and a portion of ventricular myocardium is activated before the remainder of ventricular myocardium is activated by the normal conduction system. This ventricular pre-excitation produces the short PR interval and delta wave that, along with symptoms of paroxysmal tachycardia, define the classic (manifest) Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome (3). When the accessory AV connection does not conduct in the antegrade direction, the ECG is normal, and the presence of the accessory AV connection is concealed (concealed Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome). In either event, if the accessory AV connection conducts in the retrograde direction, it can support a form of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia called orthodromic atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia. Atrioventricular Nodal Reentrant Tachycardia (AVNRT) ECG The accessory AV connection tends to have a longer refractory period than the AV node. At a premature atrial depolarization coupling interval less than the refractory period of the accessory AV pathway, but longer than the refractory period of the AV node, antegrade accessory AV pathway transmission is blocked but antegrade AV nodal conduction proceeds. In patients with classic (manifest) Wolff- Parkinson-White syndrome, the ECG shows a sudden increase in the PR interval and loss of the delta for this beat. In patients with concealed Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome, the ECG only shows an increase in the PR interval for this beat. When antegrade conduction through the AV node is sufficiently slow, it can find the distal accessory AV connection ready to conduct, but in the retrograde direction. When this retrograde accessory AC connection transmission finds the atria and, subsequently, the AV node ready to conduct again in the antegrade direction, around-and-around atrioventricular reentry occurs. The ECG then shows a rapid regular tachycardia. This orthodromic atrioventricular tachycardia is the usual (95%) type of AV reentrant tachycardia (4). Less commonly, and more often induced by a ventricular premature beat, the reentry occurs in the opposite direction (antidromic atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia). An uncommon near-incessant form of atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia, permanent junctional reentrant tachycardia (PJRT), occurs in the setting of an
