Reentrant (Paroxysmal) Supraventricular Tachycardias (PSVT)
KEYWORDS: tachycardia, reentrant, reentrant tachycardia, atrial, atrioventricular, nodal, accessory, pathway, qrs, conduction, antegrade, atrioventricular reentrant, connection, accessory connection, ecg


the reentry occurs in the opposite direction (antidromic atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia). An uncommon near-incessant form of atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia, permanent junctional reentrant tachycardia (PJRT), occurs in the setting of an antegrade concealed, usually posteroseptal, accessory AV connection that has very slow retrograde conduction. Although the tachycardia may be incessant (typically with each spontaneous termination followed by a sinus beat that re-initiates the tachycardia), some patients have a paroxysmal pattern similar to other PSVTs. The incessant form may lead to a tachycardia-induced cardiomyopathy and heart failure. Since 5% of patients with an accessory AV connection have multiple accessory AV connections (2), it is also possible to have a dual accessory AV connection atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia that uses one accessory AV connection for antegrade conduction and another accessory AV connection for retrograde conduction. Atrial reentrant tachycardia and sinus nodal reentrant tachycardia Atrial reentrant tachycardias include the micro-reentrant atrial tachycardias (see Focal atrial tachycardia) and the macro-reentrant atrial tachycardias. The latter most commonly occur in patients with structural heart disease but may occur in isolation. The macro-reentrant tachycardias are produced by wide area reentry around normal or abnormal, anatomical or functional barriers. When the ECG shows continuous atrial electrical activity (flutter waves without intervening isoelectric periods), such rhythms are also called atypical atrial flutter. When the ECG shows discrete P-waves with intervening isoelectric periods, the distinction from focal atrial tachycardia due to micro-reentry is arbitrary and requires intracardiac mapping. Sinus nodal reentrant tachycardia is a focal atrial tachycardia with a P-wave morphology the same as that during sinus rhythm. The reentry in this instance is located in the upper crista terminalis near the sinus node, and it is debatable whether the sinus node is actually involved in the circuit. (See also figure Mechanism of Typical Reentry.) Symptoms and Signs of Reentrant SVTs Most patients present during young adulthood or middle age. They typically have episodes of sudden- onset, sudden-offset, rapid, regular palpitations often associated with symptoms of hemodynamic compromise (eg, dyspnea, chest discomfort, light-headedness). Attacks may last only a few seconds or persist for several hours (rarely, > 12 hours). Infants present with episodic breathlessness, lethargy, feeding problems, or rapid precordial pulsations. If the episode of tachycardia is protracted, infants may present with heart failure. Examination is usually unremarkable except for a heart rate of 120 to 240 beats/minute, most commonly 180 to 210 beats/minute. Diagnosis of Reentrant SVTs Electrocardiography (ECG) Diagnosis of
