Reentrant (Paroxysmal) Supraventricular Tachycardias (PSVT)
KEYWORDS: tachycardia, reentrant, reentrant tachycardia, atrial, atrioventricular, nodal, accessory, pathway, qrs, conduction, antegrade, atrioventricular reentrant, connection, accessory connection, ecg


heart failure. Examination is usually unremarkable except for a heart rate of 120 to 240 beats/minute, most commonly 180 to 210 beats/minute. Diagnosis of Reentrant SVTs Electrocardiography (ECG) Diagnosis of supraventricular tachycardia is by ECG showing rapid, regular tachycardia. Previous tracings, if available, are reviewed for ECG signs of manifest WPW syndrome or pre-existing bundle branch block. P waves vary. In most cases of typical (slow-fast) AV nodal reentrant tachycardia, retrograde P waves are in the terminal portion of the QRS complex (often producing a pseudo-R′ deflection in lead V1); about one-third occur just after the QRS complex, and very few occur immediately before. P waves always follow the QRS complex in orthodromic typical atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia using an accessory AV connection as in WPW syndrome. In either instance the P wave, when identified, is in the first half of the RR interval (RP < PR), a short RP tachycardia. The exception is the rare typical AV nodal reentrant tachycardia with a P wave immediately (≤ 0.12 seconds) before the QRS complex; this tachycardia is too short to have conducted through the AV node to have created that QRS complex. The P wave, when identified, in atypical (fast-slow) AV nodal reentrant tachycardia, in permanent junctional reentrant tachycardia (PJRT), and in antidromic atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia is in the second half of the RR interval (RP > PR), a long RP tachycardia. In each of these paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardias, the P-wave morphology is negative in the inferior leads (II, III, and AVF), indicating that the atrial activation wavefront is moving from low to high through the atria. In atrial reentrant tachycardia, the P-wave may fall anywhere in the RR interval as determined by the relationship between the tachycardia rate and the AV conduction delay; the P-wave morphology may or may not be negative in the inferior leads (II, III, and AVF), depending on the site of origin of atrial depolarization. The QRS complex is narrow except with coexisting bundle branch block. Wide QRS complexes also result from activation of the ventricles exclusively down an accessory AV connection in antidromic atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia or dual accessory connection atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia. If a wide-complex tachycardia is not known to be supraventricular in origin, it must be treated acutely as ventricular tachycardia. In addition to the position of the P-wave, the 2 most common forms of reentrant (paroxysmal) supraventricular tachycardia, typical AV nodal reentrant tachycardia
