Reentrant (Paroxysmal) Supraventricular Tachycardias (PSVT)
KEYWORDS: tachycardia, reentrant, reentrant tachycardia, atrial, atrioventricular, nodal, accessory, pathway, qrs, conduction, antegrade, atrioventricular reentrant, connection, accessory connection, ecg


must be treated acutely as ventricular tachycardia. In addition to the position of the P-wave, the 2 most common forms of reentrant (paroxysmal) supraventricular tachycardia, typical AV nodal reentrant tachycardia amd orthodromic atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia, also differ in that typical AV nodal reentrant tachycardia patients are more often female and usually present in their third or fourth decade with a tachycardia in the 150 to 200 beats/minute range. Patients with orthodromic atrioventricular tachycardia are more often male and usually present in their second or third decade with a tachycardia in the 180 to 220 beats/minute range. The reentrant SVTs may also differ in their response to vagal maneuvers or adenosine administration. Although each of the reentrant SVTs may have no response to these interventions, the SVTs with conduction through the AV as part of their reentrant circuit must terminate if a single AV nodal transmission is blocked. These SVTs are both typical and atypical AV nodal reentrant tachycardias and both orthodromic and antidromic atrioventricular reentrant tachycardias. Other than no response, the most common response of an atrial reentrant tachycardia to vagal maneuvers or adenosine is for AV nodal block to occur transiently without termination of the tachycardia. This produces a long RR interval in which previously hidden P-wave should become more evident on the ECG. Although atrial reentrant tachycardias do not require AV nodal conduction for their perpetuation, some such rhythms may terminate with vagal maneuvers or adenosine, particularly if their mechanism is triggered automaticity or micro-reentry. Termination with the final event being a P-wave on the ECG strongly suggests that the SVT is not atrial in origin as this would require the coincidence that the atrial driver terminated at exactly the same time as the AV node failed to conduct. Vagal maneuvers or adenosine are also useful to distinguish reentrant SVTs from atrial flutter (the usual response being to produce AV block without termination of the flutter but with the flutter waves being evident on the ECG) or sinus tachycardia (the usual response being gradual slowing to a new rate followed by gradual acceleration to the previous rate). Pearls & Pitfalls Although most supraventricular tachycardias have a narrow QRS complex, some have a wide QRS complex and, unless the rhythm is known to be supraventricular, it must by treated acutely as ventricular tachycardia. Narrow QRS Tachycardia: Orthodromic Atrioventricular Reentrant Tachycardia Using an Accessory AV Connection in Wolff-Parkinson-White Syndrome Activation
