Reentrant (Paroxysmal) Supraventricular Tachycardias (PSVT)
KEYWORDS: tachycardia, reentrant, reentrant tachycardia, atrial, atrioventricular, nodal, accessory, pathway, qrs, conduction, antegrade, atrioventricular reentrant, connection, accessory connection, ecg


rhythm is known to be supraventricular, it must by treated acutely as ventricular tachycardia. Narrow QRS Tachycardia: Orthodromic Atrioventricular Reentrant Tachycardia Using an Accessory AV Connection in Wolff-Parkinson-White Syndrome Activation is as follows: atrioventricular node, His-Purkinje system, ventricle, accessory connection, atria. The P wave occurs shortly after the QRS complex; it is a short RP interval tachycardia (RP < PR). Treatment of Reentrant SVTs Vagotonic maneuvers Adenosine Verapamil, diltiazem, or a beta-blocker if narrow, regular QRS complex For frequent recurrence, ablation Many episodes stop spontaneously before treatment. Vagotonic maneuvers (eg, Valsalva maneuver, unilateral carotid sinus massage, ice water facial immersion, swallowing of ice-cold water), particularly if used early, may terminate the tachyarrhythmia; some patients use these maneuvers at home (1). AV node blockers are used if vagotonic maneuvers are ineffective and the QRS complex is narrow (indicating orthodromic conduction) and regular (indicating the episode is not atrial fibrillation); blocking conduction through the AV node for one beat interrupts the reentrant cycle. Adenosine is the first choice. Dose is 6 mg by rapid IV bolus (0.05 to 0.1 mg/kg in children), followed by a 20-mL saline bolus. If this dosage is ineffective, 2 subsequent 12-mg doses are given every 5 minutes. Adenosine sometimes causes a brief (2- to 3-second) period of cardiac standstill, which may distress patient and physician. Verapamil 5 mg IV or diltiazem 0.25 to 0.35 mg/kg IV are alternatives (2). For a regular, wide QRS complex tachycardia known to be an antidromic reciprocating tachycardia not involving double accessory pathways (which must be identified by the history; they cannot be established acutely), AV nodal blockers may also be effective. However, if the mechanism of the tachycardia is unknown and ventricular tachycardia has not been excluded, AV nodal blockers should be avoided because they may worsen hemodynamics in ventricular tachycardias. In such cases (or those in which medications are ineffective), IV procainamide or amiodarone can be used. Alternatively, synchronized cardioversion with 50 joules (0.5 to 2 joules/kg for children) is quick and safe and may be preferred to these more toxic agents (2). When episodes of reentrant (paroxysmal) supraventricular tachycardia are frequent or bothersome, transvenous catheter ablation is the preferred treatment and is usually curative (2). If ablation is not acceptable, medication prophylaxis usually begins with digoxin and proceeds, as required, to beta- blockers, nondihydropyridine calcium channel blockers, or both, then to one or more class Ia, class Ic, or
