Aortic valve replacement
KEYWORDS: valve, patients, evidence, level evidence, level, valves, patient, avr, replacement, surgery, risk, tissue, mechanical, class, warfarin


valve and a mechanical or tissue valve is put in its place. Once the valve is in place and the aorta has been closed, the patient is taken off the heart-lung machine. Transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE, an ultra-sound of the heart done through the esophagus) can be used to verify that the new valve is functioning properly. Pacing wires are usually put in place, so that the heart can be manually paced should any complications arise after surgery. Drainage tubes are also inserted to drain fluids from the chest and pericardium following surgery. These are usually removed within 36 hours while the pacing wires are generally left in place until right before the patient is discharged from the hospital. Hospital Stay and Recovery Time 2/5 Immediately after aortic valve replacement, the patient will frequently stay in a cardiac surgery intensive care unit for 12-36 hours. After this, the patient is often moved to a lower-dependency unit and then to a cardiac surgery ward. Total time spent in hospital following surgery is usually between 4 and 10 days, unless complications arise. Recovery from aortic valve replacement will take 1-3 months if the patient is in good health. Patients are advised not to do any heavy lifting for 6-8 weeks following surgery to avoid damaging the sternum (breast bone) while it heals. Surgical Outcome and Risk of Procedure The risk of death or serious complications from aortic valve replacement is typically quoted as being between 1-5%, depending on the health and age of the patient, as well as the skill of the surgeon. Older patients, as well as more fragile ones, are sometimes inelegible for surgery because of elevated risks. 2008 and Incorporated 2006 ACC/AHA Guidelines for the Management [1] of Patients with Valvular Heart Disease (DO NOT EDIT) Antithrombotic Therapy for Prosthetic Heart Valves (DO NOT EDIT) [1] Class I "1. After AVR with bileaflet mechanical or Medtronic Hall prostheses, in patients with no risk factors,* warfarin is indicated to achieve an INR of 2.0 to 3.0. If the patient has risk factors, warfarin is indicated to achieve an INR of 2.5 to 3.5. (Level of Evidence B)" "2. After AVR with Starr-Edwards valves or mechanical disc valves (other than Medtronic Hall prostheses), in patients with no risk factors,* warfarin is indicated to achieve an INR of 2.5 to 3.5. (Level of Evidence B)" "3. After AVR or MV replacement with a
