Aortic valve replacement
KEYWORDS: valve, patients, evidence, level evidence, level, valves, patient, avr, replacement, surgery, risk, tissue, mechanical, class, warfarin


prostheses), in patients with no risk factors,* warfarin is indicated to achieve an INR of 2.5 to 3.5. (Level of Evidence B)" "3. After AVR or MV replacement with a bioprosthesis and no risk factors,* aspirin is indicated at 75 to 100 mg per day. (Level of Evidence C)" "4. After AVR with a bioprosthesis and risk factors,* warfarin is indicated to achieve an INR of 2.0 to 3.0. (Level of Evidence C)" "5. For those patients who are unable to take warfarin after MV replacement or AVR, aspirin is indicated in a dose of 75 to 325 mg per day. (Level of Evidence B)" Class IIa "1. During the first 3 months after AVR with a mechanical prosthesis, it is reasonable to give warfarin to achieve an INR of 2.5 to 3.5. (Level of Evidence C)" "2. During the first 3 months after AVR or MV replacement with a bioprosthesis, in patients with no risk factors,* it is reasonable to give warfarin to achieve an INR of 2.0 to 3.0. (Level of Evidence C)" * Risk factors include atrial fibrillation, previous thromboembolism, LV dysfunction, and hypercoagulable condition. “ ” Intraoperative Assessment (DO NOT EDIT) [1] Class I "1. Intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography is recommended for valve replacement surgery with a stentless xenograft, homograft, or autograft valve. (Level of Evidence B)" 3/5 Class IIa "1. Intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography is reasonable for all patients undergoing cardiac valve surgery. (Level of Evidence C)" Follow-Up Visits in Patients With Complications (DO NOT EDIT) [2] Class I "1. Patients with LV systolic dysfunction after valve surgery should receive standard medical therapy for systolic heart failure. This therapy should be continued even if there is improvement of LV dysfunction. (Level of evidence B)" Treatment of Coronary Artery Disease (DO NOT EDIT) [2] Class I "1. Patients undergoing AVR with significant stenoses (greater than or equal to 70% reduction in luminal diameter) in major coronary arteries should be treated with bypass grafting. (Level of evidence: C)" Class IIa "1. In patients undergoing AVR and coronary bypass grafting, use of the left internal thoracic artery is reasonable for bypass of stenoses of the left anterior descending coronary artery greater than or equal to 50% to 70%. (Level of evidence C)" "2. For patients undergoing AVR with moderate stenosis (50% to 70% reduction in luminal diameter), it is reasonable to perform coronary bypass grafting in major coronary arteries. (Level
