Protozoa and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: malaria, pubmed, endocrine, adrenal, low, leishmaniasis, disease, severe, toxoplasmosis, infection, blood, metabolic, clinical, thyroid, abnormalities


ABSTRACT Protozoa are parasitic organisms that are among the most important pathogens worldwide. They are classified into four groups and in infected persons, the disease process may be asymptomatic. Of the four groups, Flagellates and Sporozoa are implicated in the causation of endocrine dysfunction and metabolic abnormalities. The disease condition caused by the flagellates include Giardiasis, Leishmaniasis, and Trypanosomiasis and all cause endocrine abnormalities that range from growth retardation, hypogonadism, adrenal insufficiency, thyroid dysfunction which is largely a resultant effect of the sick euthyroid syndrome, and the syndrome of inappropriate ADH secretion. The Sporozoan disease that notably give rise to metabolic abnormalities is malaria especially severe malaria which is commonly caused by P Falciparum infection. Hypoglycemia is one of the defining criteria for severe malaria and in Africa where malaria is endemic the reported prevalence rate of hypoglycemia in children is as high as 60%. Other abnormalities which are infrequently reported requiring treatment albeit temporarily are hyperglycemia, hypocalcemia, and diabetes insipidus. Adrenal insufficiency when is present is a poor prognostic factor in severe malaria. Toxoplasmosis is acquired or vertically transmitted and may present with neuroendocrine manifestations and adrenal insufficiency resulting from infiltration of the affected endocrine organs with the parasites. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . PROTOZOA A parasite is an organism that lives on or in a host organism and gets its food from or at the expense of its host. The three main classes of parasites that can cause disease in humans include helminths, protozoa, and ectoparasites. Protozoa are microscopic, one-celled organisms that can be free-living or parasitic in nature. Their ability to multiply in humans contributes to their survival and also permits serious infections to develop from just a single organism. Transmission of protozoa that live in a human’s intestine to another human typically occurs through a fecal-oral route and for those that live in the blood or tissue of human’s transmission to other humans is via an arthropod vector ( 1 ). Protozoa that are infectious to humans are classified into four groups based on their mode of movement; Mastigophora – the flagellates, e.g., Giardia , Leishmania , Trypanosoma Sporozoa – organisms whose adult stage is not motile e.g., Plasmodium , Cryptosporidium , Toxoplasma gondii, Ciliophora – the ciliates, e.g., Balantidium Sarcodina – the ameba, e.g., Entamoeba MASTIGOPHORA Mastigophora is a phylum of protozoans of
