Protozoa and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: malaria, pubmed, endocrine, adrenal, low, leishmaniasis, disease, severe, toxoplasmosis, infection, blood, metabolic, clinical, thyroid, abnormalities


is not motile e.g., Plasmodium , Cryptosporidium , Toxoplasma gondii, Ciliophora – the ciliates, e.g., Balantidium Sarcodina – the ameba, e.g., Entamoeba MASTIGOPHORA Mastigophora is a phylum of protozoans of the Kingdom Protista, consisting mainly of free-living flagellated unicellular organisms that reproduce by binary fission and whose habitat includes fresh and marine waters. Leishmania and Trypanosoma live in the blood, lymph, and tissue spaces and are typically transmitted from one host to another by blood feeding arthropods. Giardiasis This is a diarrheal illness that is caused by Giardia (also known as Giardia intestinalis, Giardia lamblia, or Giardia duodenalis ). It is a microscopic parasite and is the most common cause of protozoa associated diarrhea worldwide. The prevalence rate of Giardiasis is higher in developing countries than in the developed countries of the world with Giardia species being endemic in areas of the world that have poor sanitation and high-risk groups including immunocompromised individuals ( 2 - 3 ). MODE OF TRANSMISSION The parasite is found on surfaces or in soil, food, or water that has been contaminated with feces from infected humans or animals. Infection is transmitted commonly through ingestion of infectious G lamblia cysts. In the intestine, excystation occurs and trophozoites are released into the feces. A summary of the transmission of the parasite is shown in Figure 1 . Giardia infrequently is transmitted sexually specifically through oral-anal practices. The incubation period is 3-35 days but 7-10 days on the average. Figure 1. Life Cycle of Giardia. Source- Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CLINICAL PRESENTATION The clinical manifestations include acute or chronic diarrheal disease, but the infection may be asymptomatic even in children. In a Nigeria Study ( 3 ) that evaluated stool samples of children aged between 0-5 years, about half-(41%) were positive for G. lamblia. The extraintestinal manifestations of Giardiasis include allergic presentations resulting from immune system activation, and long-term consequences such as ocular pathologies, arthritis, allergies, growth failure, muscular, and metabolic complications ( 4 - 5 ). ENDOCRINE AND METABOLIC ABNORMALITIES The complications relating to endocrine and metabolic dysfunction include growth failure and hypothyroidism. The Nigerian Report described above showed a positive association between asymptomatic giardiasis and malnutrition. The relation between Giardiasis and growth failure is explained mainly by malabsorption leading to protein energy malnutrition and micronutrient deficiencies. Other than nutritional status, other contributory factors to growth stunting in children include sanitary and socio-economic conditions,
