Protozoa and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: malaria, pubmed, endocrine, adrenal, low, leishmaniasis, disease, severe, toxoplasmosis, infection, blood, metabolic, clinical, thyroid, abnormalities


is explained mainly by malabsorption leading to protein energy malnutrition and micronutrient deficiencies. Other than nutritional status, other contributory factors to growth stunting in children include sanitary and socio-economic conditions, loss of intestinal surface area, and maldigestion ( 4 - 5 ). Giardia infection has no direct effect or impact on thyroid function but has been reported to indirectly affect thyroid status. Worsening of hypothyroidism related to malabsorption of levothyroxine tablets occasioned by the presence of Giardia infection has been documented in the literature ( 6 - 7 ). DIAGNOSIS AND MANAGEMENT The diagnosis is made by demonstration of cysts or trophozoites in stool samples. Other means of diagnosis include small bowel biopsy and stool ELISA. The mainstay of treatment is metronidazole. Patients with stunted growth often experience catch- up growth following treatment of giardiasis. Leishmaniasis Leishmaniasis is a poverty related protozoal disease caused by the Leishmania donovani complex. There are 3 main forms of leishmaniases – visceral (also known as kala-azar, the most serious form of the disease), cutaneous (the most common), and mucocutaneous. The clinical spectrum of leishmaniasis ranges from a self-resolving cutaneous ulcer to a mutilating mucocutaneous disease and even to a lethal systemic illness. In Nigeria cutaneous leishmaniasis is the commonly occurring type and has been noted to occur in Northern Nigeria especially in areas bordering the Niger Republic. MODE OF TRANSMISSION Leishmania spp. is a parasite with a dimorphic life cycle that is controlled by the passage from vector to host .All three forms of Leishmaniasis are transmitted by the bite of infected female sand fly. The vector phase of the life cycle begins when the vector ingests blood containing the parasites with the parasites undergoing differentiation and ultimately becoming promastigotes and pass into the proboscis where where they can inoculate the host during feeding of the vector ( 8 ). These human and vector stages of Leishmania are shown in Figure 2 . Infiltration of the reticuloendothelial system by amastigotes leads to the biochemical and clinical features of the disease. Vertical transmission of visceral leishmaniasis may occur during pregnancy while cutaneous leishmaniasis may be transmitted through physical contact. Transmission via contaminated needles, blood transfusion, sexual intercourse and vertical transmission are modes of transmission that are documented albeit infrequently ( 8 ). Figure 2. Life cycle of Leishmania. Source -CDC CLINICAL PRESENTATION Visceral Leishmaniasis (VL) may present with fever, malnutrition, weight loss , hepatosplenomegaly and
