Protozoa and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: malaria, pubmed, endocrine, adrenal, low, leishmaniasis, disease, severe, toxoplasmosis, infection, blood, metabolic, clinical, thyroid, abnormalities


are documented albeit infrequently ( 8 ). Figure 2. Life cycle of Leishmania. Source -CDC CLINICAL PRESENTATION Visceral Leishmaniasis (VL) may present with fever, malnutrition, weight loss , hepatosplenomegaly and death if treatment is delayed or sub-optimal. Cutaneous Leishmaniasis presents with skin ulceration and nodules and the Mucocutaneous form of Leishmaniasis with skin and mucous involvement. ENDOCRINE AND METABOLIC ABNORMALITIES Evidence of involvement of several endocrine organs- pituitary, adrenal, thyroid, and sex glands- via histopathologic studies have been documented in VL ( 9 ). However abnormal endocrine function tests in some instances without clinical manifestations have been documented. Reports from Africa and Europe show that thyroid function may be affected in VL but the abnormalities detected are most likely a result of euthyroid sick syndrome (ESS) or non-thyroidal illness (NTI) with no clinical presentation of thyroid disease ( 10 - 12 ). VL has been reported to present with primary adrenal insufficiency in with clinically overt features and in some cases biochemical evidence without clinical features may occur. Primary adrenal insufficiency (AI) was reported in VL in a patient without HIV infection and a patient with concomitant HIV infection and was attributable to parasitic infiltration of the organ ( 13 - 14 ). A Brazilian Series reported a prevalence rate of AI to be about 50% in persons with VL ( 12 ). In the Brazilian Report ( 12 ) that compared hormonal parameters between persons with chronic leishmaniasis and control subjects, the following were noted in some of the subjects with leishmaniasis; a) features of pituitary dysfunction characterized by low TSH, low T4, and low T3 levels (ESS/NTI), b) elevated ACTH with normal cortisol levels, c) high FSH, LH, and low testosterone levels. Other endocrine abnormalities include low parathyroid hormone (PTH) and decreased total and ionized calcium levels. An unusual presentation of VL is adrenal cysts which has been reported to come to clinical attention because of the mass effect ( 15 - 16 ). The Syndrome of inappropriate ADH secretion (SIADH) is often reported in VL with hyponatremia documented as a significant contributory factor to mortality of the disease ( 17 ). The endocrine and metabolic abnormalities of Leishmaniasis and potential mechanisms underlying their occurrence are shown in Table 1 . Table 1. Endocrine and Metabolic Dysfunction in Visceral Leishmaniasis View in own window Endocrine Gland Hormonal Status The Level of Abnormality Underlying Mechanism Presentations Thyroid Gland Low
