Protozoa and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: malaria, pubmed, endocrine, adrenal, low, leishmaniasis, disease, severe, toxoplasmosis, infection, blood, metabolic, clinical, thyroid, abnormalities


Table 1 . Table 1. Endocrine and Metabolic Dysfunction in Visceral Leishmaniasis View in own window Endocrine Gland Hormonal Status The Level of Abnormality Underlying Mechanism Presentations Thyroid Gland Low TSH, Low T3, Low T4 High TSH, Low T4, Low T3 Hypothalamic/Pituitary Axis ESS/NTI Malnutrition in VL may lead to suppressed TSH and subsequent low TH production. Parasitism of the pituitary gland. No clinical features of thyroid disease Low T4, High TSH Primary hypothyroidism /Thyroid gland Primary thyroid insufficiency due to the infiltration of the thyroid gland causing thyroiditis Adrenal Gland Low Cortisol, High ACTH Primary adrenal insufficiency Parasitic Infiltration of the adrenal cortex Mucosal pigmentation, chronic diarrhea, weight loss High ACTH, Normal Cortisol Primary adrenal insufficiency Parasitic Infiltration of the adrenal cortex These patients have normal cortisol levels but were unable to mount an adequate response to stress High ACTH, high cortisol Hypothalamus, Pituitary Stress Response Parathyroid gland Low PTH, Hypocalcemia Renal (interstitial nephritis) and GIT Hypomagnesaemia resulting from increased renal loss. GIT loss from possible malabsorption and frequent diarrhea. Posterior pituitary gland Syndrome of inappropriate ADH secretion (SIADH) Hypothalamo-Pituitary Axis Volume depletion from vomiting leading to increased serum osmolality and resultant Vasopressin release from the PPG. Intense inflammatory response from multiple organ involvement leads to activation of HPA axis and Vasopressin release. Hyponatremia, elevated urinary osmolality and reduced serum osmolality Gonads High FSH, High LH and low testosterone Primary hypogonadism Parasitism of the testes, reduced testicular size with fewer Sertoli and Leydig cells. Malnutrition may be contributory to the low testosterone level Delayed Puberty Erectile dysfunction DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT A combination of clinical symptoms and laboratory parameters clinches the diagnosis. The laboratory tests involve the detection of the parasites in samples taken from the base of the ulcer and dermal scrapings- Wright ‘s stain detects round or ovoid parasite in the cytoplasm of macrophages. Polymerase chain reaction for detection of the parasite in peripheral blood and bone marrow samples IS diagnostic. Other tests to support the diagnosis is the Leishman test, which essentially refers to observation of a delayed tuberculin type of reaction following an Intradermal injection of leishmanial antigen. The mainstay of treatment is the pentavalent antimony compounds. Other pharmacotherapies include amphotericin B, oral miltefosine, pentamidine, and antibiotics. Treatment is individualized, thus persons with associated endocrine/metabolic dysfunction are treated on a case-by-case basis. Trypanosomiasis This is an anthropozoonosis caused by a protozoan hemoflagellate. Trypanosoma cruzi in American
