Protozoa and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: malaria, pubmed, endocrine, adrenal, low, leishmaniasis, disease, severe, toxoplasmosis, infection, blood, metabolic, clinical, thyroid, abnormalities


antibiotics. Treatment is individualized, thus persons with associated endocrine/metabolic dysfunction are treated on a case-by-case basis. Trypanosomiasis This is an anthropozoonosis caused by a protozoan hemoflagellate. Trypanosoma cruzi in American trypanosomiasis, also known as Chagas disease, is transmitted to human host by a tick. Human African trypanosomiasis (HAT) also known as sleeping sickness is caused by Trypanosoma brucei gambiense in West and Central Africa and Trypanosoma brucei rhodosiense in East Africa is transmitted to human hosts by bites of infected tsetse flies. Figure 3. The pathogen in human African trypanosomiasis MODE OF TRANSMISSION In HAT the tsesefly (glossina specie) injects metacyclic trypomastogotes into the skin and these pass into the blood stream and are subsequently carried to other parts of the body and body fluids. The tsetsefly becomes infected when it bites an infected person. Trypanosoma brucei gambiense may also be acquired congenitally from an infected mother. Chagas disease is transmitted by a group of blood-feeding insects known as kissing bugs or triatomid bugs. The pathogen normally circulates between bugs and wild animals in sylvatic habitats; infected bugs in domestic habitats can transmit Chagas to humans and domestic animals (dogs, guinea pigs). Details of the life cycle and transmission of the pathogen is shown in Figure 4 . Figure 4. Transmission of Chagas Disease CLINICAL PRESENTATION Trypanosomiasis may cause acute illness but on the other hand the infection may be asymptomatic. Chagas disease (CD) presents in three phases: acute, indeterminate, and chronic. The acute phase occurs immediately following infection and is usually asymptomatic in most people but when symptomatic, presentation is essentially those of malaise and skin lesions. The indeterminate phase is usually asymptomatic but may progress to a chronic phase where organ systems mainly the heart and sometimes the gastrointestinal tract are affected. HAT is characterized by an early hyper-hemolytic phase in which the trypanosomes are restricted to the blood and the lymphatic system and also characterized by organomegaly and lymphadenopathy. This is followed by a late phase or the meningo-encephalitic stage characterized by neuro-psychiatric and endocrinal disorders. ENDOCRINE AND METABOLIC ABNORMALITIES These occur infrequently and includes systemic neuroendocrine manifestations in the sympathetic and parasympathetic ganglia. In HAT, documented endocrine abnormalities include adrenal insufficiency, hypothyroidism, and hypogonadism in the absence of autoantibodies ( 18 ). Some authors have reported thyroid dysfunction specifically hypothyroidism in untreated HAT ( 19 ). Adrenal insufficiency in trypanosomiasis may be primary or secondary and
