Protozoa and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: malaria, pubmed, endocrine, adrenal, low, leishmaniasis, disease, severe, toxoplasmosis, infection, blood, metabolic, clinical, thyroid, abnormalities


absence of autoantibodies ( 18 ). Some authors have reported thyroid dysfunction specifically hypothyroidism in untreated HAT ( 19 ). Adrenal insufficiency in trypanosomiasis may be primary or secondary and this is seen especially in untreated cases ( 20 ). The adrenal may serve as a reservoir for the T. cruzi infection and some investigators have noted a correlation between Chagasic myocarditis and infection within the central vein of the adrenal gland ( 21 ). Secondary hypogonadism in both sexes had also been demonstrated in some reports which clearly showed that in the majority of the cases, the pathology was not at the level of the pituitary gland but rather an extra pituitary origin ( 22 ). Clearly, primary hypogonadism was not demonstrated to be a contributory factor to cases of hypogonadism in persons with trypanosomiasis. Metabolic abnormalities are infrequently reported however a case of spurious hypoglycemia ( 23 ) has been documented in which hypoglycemia was attributable to invitro utilization of glucose by the parasite. The metabolic and endocrine abnormalities are shown in Table 2 . Table 2. Endocrine and Metabolic Dysfunction in Trypanosomiasis View in own window Endocrine Gland Hormone /Hormonal status The level of abnormality Possible reason Clinical Presentation Thyroid Gland Low TSH, Low T3 Low T4 High TSH, Low T4, Low T3 Secondary hypothyroidism Primary hypothyroidism Elevated plasma cytokines related to untreated HAT Parasitic thyroiditis HPA Axis Subnormal Cortisol response to ACTH Subnormal cortisol response to ACTH Subnormal ACTH and cortisol response to (CRT) test Primary Adrenal Insufficiency Secondary adrenal insufficiency Parasitic invasion of the adrenal gland. Iatrogenic: Suramin in doses exceeding the quantity employed in the treatment of trypanosomiasis inhibits adrenocortical hormone synthesis. Adaptation of the HPA state to the cytokines released due to inflammatory status of the underlying disease Glucose metabolism Low glucose levels Spurious Hypoglycemia Clinical hypoglycemia Invitro utilization of glucose by trypanosome Iatrogenic: Pentamidine HPG Axis In Men: Low Testosterone, Low LH and FSH Positive response of testosterone to GnRH/LHRH stimulation In women: Low Estradiol, low basal LH and FSH levels and positive response to GnRH/ LHRH Secondary hypogonadism Tertiary hypogonadism Tertiary hypogonadism Most likely due to inflammatory status of the underlying disease Mechanism not known but may be due to cytokine release Mechanism not known but may be due to cytokine release Loss of libido, Impotence Impotence Amenorrhea DIAGNOSIS Diagnosis of HAT involves a three-tiered approach for infections due to T.b.
