Protozoa and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: malaria, pubmed, endocrine, adrenal, low, leishmaniasis, disease, severe, toxoplasmosis, infection, blood, metabolic, clinical, thyroid, abnormalities


release Mechanism not known but may be due to cytokine release Loss of libido, Impotence Impotence Amenorrhea DIAGNOSIS Diagnosis of HAT involves a three-tiered approach for infections due to T.b. Gambiense and a two-tiered approach for that due to T.b. rhodosiense. The three steps for gambiense HAT include a screening test, diagnostic confirmation, and stage determination while that for rhodesiense HAT are diagnostic confirmation and stage determination. Screening is for gambiense HAT involves serology - CATT (Card Agglutination Test for Trypanosomiasis), which detects the presence of specific antibodies in the patient’s blood or serum. Diagnostic confirmation is done to detect the presence of trypanosomes in lymph node aspirates, chancre smear, or in blood. Stage determination is via the detection of trypanosomes (after centrifugation) and white cell count in the cerebrospinal fluid (lumbar puncture): Hemolymphatic stage is characterized by the absence of trypanosomes AND ≤ 5 white cells/mm 3 and the Meningoencephalitic stage is defined by evidence of trypanosomes OR > 5 white cells/mm 3 . Diagnosis of Chagas disease is via identification of Trypanosoma cruzi by direct microscopy of fresh blood or blood concentrated by the microhematocrit method. Serological tests for anti-Trypanosoma cruzi antibodies are performed for cases of suspected disease but no definitive diagnosis by microscopy. PHARMACOTHERAPY FOR TRYPANOSMIASIS Acute or chronic Chagas disease can be treated with either benznidazole or nifurtimox for those without cardiac or GIT complications. Drugs employed in the management of HAT include Nifurtimox, Eflornithine, Melarsoprol, Pentamidine, and Prednisolone ( 24 ). SPOROZOANS Sporozoans are a group of non-flagellated, non-ciliated and non-amoeboid protists that are responsible for diseases such as malaria and toxoplasmosis. Malaria Malaria is an infection caused by single-celled parasites that enter the blood through the bite of an Anopheles mosquito. These parasites, called plasmodia, belong to at least five species; P falciparum, P vivax, P ovale, P malariae and P knowlesi. Plasmodium parasites spend several parts of their life cycle inside humans and another part inside mosquitoes. During the human part of their life cycle, Plasmodium parasites infect and multiply inside liver cells and red blood cells. Malaria infection begins when an infected female Anopheles mosquito bites a person, injecting Plasmodium parasites, in the form of sporozoites , into the bloodstream and then to the liver. In the liver, asexual multiplication of the sporozoites take place and these are released from the liver as merozoites which invade the red blood cells and
