Protozoa and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: malaria, pubmed, endocrine, adrenal, low, leishmaniasis, disease, severe, toxoplasmosis, infection, blood, metabolic, clinical, thyroid, abnormalities


then to the liver. In the liver, asexual multiplication of the sporozoites take place and these are released from the liver as merozoites which invade the red blood cells and multiply within the red cells until the cells burst and the released merozoites invade more red cells with the cycle repeating itself and causing fever. Some of the merozoites leave the cycle of asexual multiplication and instead of replicating within the cells develop into sexual forms of the parasites known as gametocytes. Following the bite of an infected person, gametocytes are ingested by the mosquito and develop into gametes which ultimately become sporozoites which travel to the mosquito’s salivary glands ( 25 ). CLINICAL PRESENTATION Uncomplicated malaria presents with fever, headache, and generalized malaise. Severe malaria refers to the demonstration of asexual forms of the malaria parasites (commonly P falciparum) in a patient with a potentially fatal manifestations or complications of malaria. Severe malaria is characterized by altered mentation, severe hemolysis, some metabolic abnormalities, and organ complications. ENDOCRINE AND METABOLIC ABNORMALITIES Hypoglycemia is commonly documented in severe malaria and hyperglycemia although infrequently reported is seen in severe malaria as well as uncomplicated malaria. Hypocalcemia is also reported in severe malaria as well as in cases of uncomplicated malaria. Hypoglycemia may be iatrogenic due to quinine administration or due to increased glucose turnover secondary to increased glucose uptake resulting from anaerobic glycolysis and alterations in glucose production in severe malaria ( 26 ). Nigeria Reports have hypoglycemia (blood glucose <2.2mmol/L) documented in 60% of children diagnosed with severe malaria ( 27 ). Hyperglycemia on the other hand infrequently occurs in persons with malaria and it may present in uncomplicated malaria or severe malaria due to P falciparum infection. The causes of hyperglycemia sometimes necessitate the temporary use of insulin and is multifactorial. These include release of counter-regulatory hormones in response to the stress of the underlying malaria disease condition and pro inflammatory cytokines which increase blood glucose ( 28 ). Other proposed reasons for hyperglycemia are reduced sensitivity to insulin and increased gastric and small intestine permeability for sucrose in malaria patients ( 29 - 30 ). Hypocalcemia is reported in severe malaria as well as in cases of uncomplicated malaria. It has been shown that there is an inverse relationship between parasite load and calcium levels with calcium levels returning to normal following treatment and parasite clearance ( 31 ).
