Protozoa and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: malaria, pubmed, endocrine, adrenal, low, leishmaniasis, disease, severe, toxoplasmosis, infection, blood, metabolic, clinical, thyroid, abnormalities


It has been shown that there is an inverse relationship between parasite load and calcium levels with calcium levels returning to normal following treatment and parasite clearance ( 31 ). Altered magnesium metabolism and disturbed parathyroid gland function have been documented as possible reasons for hypocalcemia in malaria ( 32 ). The pituitary-thyroid axis may be depressed in severe malaria and this is most likely attributable to adaptations of the pituitary-thyroid axis to the underlying illness. A Report has noted suppressed T4 and TSH levels with a poorly responsive pituitary gland to TRH stimulation as evidenced by low TSH levels following stimulation ( 33 - 34 ). Another possible mechanism underlying the secondary hypothyroidism is parasitic sequestration within the hypothalamo-pituitary portal system ( 35 ). Clinical and biochemical parameters of central diabetes insipidus which in some cases warranted treatment has been reported in severe malaria. The suggested mechanism is obstruction of the neurohypophyseal microvasculature ( 36 - 37 ). Primary and secondary adrenal insufficiency which may present with subnormal cortisol levels and in some cases overt features of hypocortisolemia may be seen in severe malaria. Primary adrenal insufficiency may be due to necrosis or impaired circulation due to sequestration of parasites. Some reports have results suggestive of cytokines playing a role in modulating the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis in secondary adrenal insufficiency. Other potential mechanisms for secondary adrenal insufficiency are erythrocyte sequestration within the hypothalamic -pituitary portal system, altered setpoint for cortisol inhibition of ACTH, and production of a peptide like mammalian somatostatin which has been found to inhibit ACTH secretion in vitro ( 38 - 39 ). DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT Direct microscopy employed on thin and thick blood films enable parasite detection, species identification, quantification, and monitoring of parasitemia. Serology via the rapid diagnostic tests which detects the parasite antigen can be employed. Figure 5: Giemsa-stained peripheral blood smear. Arrow A showing a classic, ring-shaped trophozoite of Plasmodium falciparum . Arrow B showing a classic, headphone-shaped trophozoite of P. falciparum . Arrow C showing two trophozoites of P. falciparum within the same red blood cell. (Reproduced from BMJ Case Reports (Surce-Parikh et al. Classic image: peripheral blood smear in a case of Plasmodium falciparum cerebral malaria http://dx.doi.org/10.1136/bcr-2014-205820 Severe malaria regardless of the infecting specie is treated with intravenous Artesunate and interim oral treatment, artemether -lumefantrine. Other oral antimalarial drugs are Atovaquone-proguanil, Quinine. and Mefloquine. Toxoplasmosis Toxoplasmosis is an infection with Toxoplasma
