Protozoa and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: malaria, pubmed, endocrine, adrenal, low, leishmaniasis, disease, severe, toxoplasmosis, infection, blood, metabolic, clinical, thyroid, abnormalities


the infecting specie is treated with intravenous Artesunate and interim oral treatment, artemether -lumefantrine. Other oral antimalarial drugs are Atovaquone-proguanil, Quinine. and Mefloquine. Toxoplasmosis Toxoplasmosis is an infection with Toxoplasma gondii, an obligate intracellular protozoon, which is ingested in the form oocysts in material contaminated by feces from infected cats. Oocysts may also be transported to food by flies and cockroaches. TRANSMISSION It is primarily an intestinal parasite in cats and has a wide host of intermediate hosts including sheep and mice and exists in three forms: oocysts, tachyzoites, and bradyzoites. Oocysts are only produced in the definitive host – the cat. When passed in the feces and then ingested, the oocysts can infect humans and other intermediate hosts where they develop into tachyzoites- rapidly multiplying trophozoite form of T. gondii . They divide rapidly in cells, causing tissue destruction and spreading the infection. The transmission of toxoplasmosis is shown in Figure 5 . Tachyzoites in pregnant women are capable of infecting the fetus. Eventually tachyzoites localize to muscle tissues and the CNS where they convert to tissue cysts, or bradyzoites which is the dormant stage. This is thought to be a response to the host immune reaction. Ingestion of cysts in contaminated meat is also a source of infection, as bradyzoites transform back into tachyzoites upon entering a new host. Figure 5. Mode of transmission of toxoplasmosis CLINICAL PRESENTATION Toxoplasmosis is often asymptomatic or associated with mild self-limiting symptoms except in immunocompromised persons and sometimes in cases that are congenitally transmitted via the transplacental route (congenital toxoplasmosis). CNS toxoplasmosis is one of the most common and important opportunistic infections in patients who are immunocompromised -the clinical manifestations are often nonspecific, with the most common presenting symptoms being headache, lethargy, fever, and focal neurologic signs. In congenital toxoplasmosis (CT), chorioretinitis is the most common manifestation and may cause seizure, hydrocephalus, and psychomotor delay. ENDOCRINE AND METABOLIC ABNORMALITIES Endocrine defects in toxoplasmosis are usually neuroendocrine in nature and may occur in congenital toxoplasmosis as well as acquired toxoplasmosis. Endocrine manifestations of Toxoplasmosis include hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, precocious puberty, short stature, and diabetes insipidus. Documented hormonal abnormalities in persons with congenital toxoplasmosis result from hypothalamo-pituitary dysfunction and include growth hormone, gonadotropin, and ADH deficiency ( 40 - 41 ) ( Figure 6 ). Figure 6. Computerized tomography of brain showing dilated ventricles with multiple subependymal and parenchymal calcifications (arrow). (Source: Mohammed S et
