Protozoa and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: malaria, pubmed, endocrine, adrenal, low, leishmaniasis, disease, severe, toxoplasmosis, infection, blood, metabolic, clinical, thyroid, abnormalities


deficiency ( 40 - 41 ) ( Figure 6 ). Figure 6. Computerized tomography of brain showing dilated ventricles with multiple subependymal and parenchymal calcifications (arrow). (Source: Mohammed S et al; Congenital toxoplasmosis presenting as central diabetes insipidus in an infant: a case report BMC Res Notes . 2014; 7: 184. Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism may occur transiently as a result of the modulation of the hypothalamus-pituitary axis by cytokines. Trypanosomiasis which is seen as a ring enhancing lesions in the brain during MRI imaging is an organic cause of the neuroendocrine abnormalities noted in some series ( 42 - 44 ). Toxoplasmosis has been suggested as a possible risk factor for type 2 diabetes mellitus. Some Researchers have suggested that Toxoplasma gondii directly effects pancreatic cells through beta cell destruction ( 45 - 46 ). DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT Diagnosis is made via direct detection of the parasites in body fluid and tissue samples. Serology and molecular techniques are also employed in the diagnosis. Imaging preferable MRI is of use in suspected CNS involvement. Pyrimethamine, Sulfadiazine and Trimethorprin, and sulfamethoxazole are pharmacotherapies for managing toxoplasmosis. BALANTIDIASIS Balantidiasis is a disease caused by Balantidium coli, a ciliated protozoan and the only ciliate known to be capable of infecting humans. It is transmitted via contaminated water or food through cysts often associated with swine, the primary reservoir host. Endocrine and metabolic dysfunction or abnormalities are not documented in Balantidiasis. SARCODINA Amoebiasis is a diarrhea illness caused by infection with Entamoeba histolytica and is acquired by fecal-oral transmission. In some instances, extraintestinal diseases may occur but endocrine and metabolic dysfunction are not known to occur. CONCLUSION Protozoal infections are rare but significant causes of metabolic and endocrine abnormalities. The possibility of protozoal infections as possible causes of these abnormalities should be sought out in regions where these infections are prevalent especially after exclusion of other commonly occurring causes. REFERENCES 1. Mousa HA. The Hidden Scene behind the High prevalence of Giardiasis and other infectious diseases in developing countries. J Infect Dis Ther. 2014; 2 :e106. [ CrossRef ] 2. Espelage Werner, an der Heiden Matthias, Stark Klaus, Alpers Katharina. Characteristics and risk factors for symptomatic Giardia lamblia infections in Germany. BMC Public Health. 2010; 10 :41. [ PMC free article : PMC2824735 ] [ PubMed : 20105338 ] [ CrossRef ] 3. Inabo HI, Yau B, Yakubu SE. Asymptomatic Giardiasis and Nutritional Status of Children
