Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


Overview This guideline covers investigation and management of heart valve disease presenting in adults. It aims to improve quality of life and survival for people with heart valve disease through timely diagnosis and appropriate intervention. For NHS England and NHS Improvement's position on transcatheter aortic valve implantation for people at low or intermediate surgical risk, see the implementation strategy for transcatheter aortic valve implantation. Who is it for? • Healthcare professionals • Commissioners and providers • People with heart valve disease, their families and carers Recommendations People have the right to be involved in discussions and make informed decisions about their care, as described in NICE's information on making decisions about your care. Making decisions using NICE guidelines explains how we use words to show the strength (or certainty) of our recommendations, and has information about prescribing medicines (including off-label use), professional guidelines, standards and laws (including on consent and mental capacity), and safeguarding. 1.1 Referral for echocardiography and specialist assessment Referral for echocardiography 1.1.1 Consider an echocardiogram for adults with a murmur and no other signs or symptoms if valve disease is suspected based on: • the nature of the murmur • family history • age (especially if over 75), or • medical history (for example, a history of atrial fibrillation). 1.1.2 Offer an echocardiogram to adults with a murmur if valve disease is suspected (based on the nature of the murmur, family history, age or medical history) and they have: • signs (such as peripheral oedema) or symptoms (such as angina or breathlessness) or an abnormal ECG, or • an ejection systolic murmur with a reduced second heart sound but no other signs or symptoms. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on referral for echocardiography. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review A: symptoms and signs indicating need for echocardiography or direct referral to a specialist. Referral for urgent specialist assessment or urgent echocardiography 1.1.3 If valve disease is suspected (based on the nature of the murmur, family history, age or medical history): • Offer urgent (within 2 weeks) specialist assessment that includes echocardiogram or if not available an urgent echocardiogram alone to adults with a systolic murmur and exertional syncope. • Consider urgent (within 2 weeks) specialist assessment that includes echocardiogram for adults with
