Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


if not available an urgent echocardiogram alone to adults with a systolic murmur and exertional syncope. • Consider urgent (within 2 weeks) specialist assessment that includes echocardiogram for adults with a murmur and severe symptoms (angina or breathlessness on minimal exertion or at rest) thought to be related to valvular heart disease. 1.1.4 For guidance on referral and assessment for adults with murmur and non- exertional syncope, follow the recommendations in the NICE guideline on transient loss of consciousness ('blackouts') in over 16s. 1.1.5 For guidance on referral and assessment for adults with breathlessness but no murmur, follow the recommendations in the NICE guideline on chronic heart failure in adults. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on referral for urgent specialist assessment or urgent echocardiography. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review A: symptoms and signs indicating need for echocardiography or direct referral to a specialist. Referral to a specialist after echocardiography 1.1.6 Be aware that mild valve disease is common and rarely progresses to become clinically significant. 1.1.7 Offer referral to a specialist to: • adults with moderate or severe valve disease of any type • adults with bicuspid aortic valve disease of any severity (including mild valve disease). For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on referral to a specialist after echocardiography. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review B: indications for referral to a specialist following echocardiography. Information, referral and specialist assessment for pregnant women and women considering pregnancy 1.1.8 Be aware that most women with valve disease can have a pregnancy without complications. 1.1.9 Offer advice on the implications of treatment choices on any future pregnancy to women who need heart valve intervention. 1.1.10 Offer advice on family planning to women with severe valve disease, particularly aortic and mitral stenosis. 1.1.11 Refer pregnant women or women who are considering a pregnancy to a cardiologist with expertise in the care of pregnant women, if they have any of the following: • moderate or severe valve disease • bicuspid aortic valve disease of any severity (including mild disease) and associated aortopathy • a prosthetic valve. Refer whether they have symptoms or not. 1.1.12
