Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


or severe valve disease • bicuspid aortic valve disease of any severity (including mild disease) and associated aortopathy • a prosthetic valve. Refer whether they have symptoms or not. 1.1.12 Consider seeking specialist advice on the choice of replacement valve if heart valve replacement surgery is being considered for women of childbearing potential. 1.1.13 For guidance on intrapartum care, follow the recommendations on heart disease in the NICE guideline on intrapartum care for women with existing medical conditions or obstetric complications and their babies. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on information, referral and specialist assessment for pregnant women and women considering a pregnancy. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review A: symptoms and signs indicating need for echocardiography or direct referral to a specialist. 1.2 Pharmacological management Management of heart failure in people with valve disease 1.2.1 Consider a beta-blocker for adults with moderate to severe mitral stenosis and heart failure. 1.2.2 When adults with heart valve conditions and heart failure also have left ventricular dysfunction, refer to the NICE guideline on chronic heart failure in adults. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see rationale and impact section on pharmacological management of heart failure in heart valve disease. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review C: pharmacological management. 1.3 Indications for interventions 1.3.1 Offer an intervention to adults with symptomatic severe heart valve disease. For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation and how it might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on indications for interventions. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review H: transcatheter intervention, surgery or conservative management in heart valve disease. Aortic stenosis 1.3.2 Consider referring adults with asymptomatic severe aortic stenosis for intervention, if suitable, if they have any of the following: • Vmax (peak aortic jet velocity) more than 5 m/s on echocardiography • aortic valve area less than 0.6 cm2 on echocardiography • left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) less than 55% • B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) or N-terminal proBNP (NT-proBNP) level more than twice the upper limit of normal • symptoms unmasked on exercise testing. 1.3.3 Consider referring adults with symptomatic low-gradient
