Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) or N-terminal proBNP (NT-proBNP) level more than twice the upper limit of normal • symptoms unmasked on exercise testing. 1.3.3 Consider referring adults with symptomatic low-gradient aortic stenosis with LVEF less than 50% for intervention if during dobutamine stress echocardiography the aortic stenosis is shown to be severe by: • a mean gradient across the aortic valve that increases to more than 40 mmHg and • an aortic valve area that remains less than 1 cm2. 1.3.4 Consider measuring aortic valve calcium score on cardiac CT if the severity of symptomatic aortic stenosis is uncertain. 1.3.5 Offer enhanced follow up (for example, more frequent reviews) and further assessment (for example, stress echocardiography) to monitor the need for intervention if mid-wall fibrosis is detected on cardiac MRI in adults with severe aortic stenosis. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on indications for interventions for adults with aortic stenosis. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in: • evidence review D: indications for intervention • evidence review E: stress testing and stress echocardiography in determining need for intervention • evidence review F: CT and MRI indications for intervention. Aortic regurgitation 1.3.6 Consider referring adults with asymptomatic severe aortic regurgitation for intervention, if suitable, if they have either of the following: • LVEF less than 55% or • end systolic diameter (ESD) of more than 50 mm or end systolic diameter index (ESDI) more than 24 mm/m2 on echocardiography. For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation and how it might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on indications for interventions for adults with aortic regurgitation. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review D: indications for intervention. Mitral regurgitation 1.3.7 Consider referring adults with asymptomatic severe primary mitral regurgitation for intervention, if suitable, if they have any of the following: • LVEF less than 60% • ESD more than 45 mm or ESDI more than 22 mm/m2 on echocardiography or • an increase of systolic pulmonary artery pressure to more than 60 mmHg on exercise testing. When making decisions about referral for surgery, take into account the suitability of the valve for repair and the presence of atrial fibrillation or systolic pulmonary artery pressure of more than 50
