Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


decisions about referral for surgery, take into account the suitability of the valve for repair and the presence of atrial fibrillation or systolic pulmonary artery pressure of more than 50 mmHg on echocardiography at rest. For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation and how it might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on indications for intervention for adults with mitral regurgitation. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review D: indications for intervention and evidence review E: stress testing and stress echocardiography in determining need for intervention. 1.4 Monitoring when there is no current need for intervention 1.4.1 Offer clinical review every 6 to 12 months, with an echocardiogram, to adults with asymptomatic severe valve disease if an intervention is suitable but not currently needed. Base the frequency of the review on echocardiography findings and shared decision making with the patient. 1.4.2 Consider echocardiographic assessment every 3 to 5 years for adults with mild aortic or mitral stenosis. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on monitoring where there is no current need for intervention. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review G: monitoring of people with heart valve disease and no current indication for intervention. 1.5 Interventions See the recommendations on indications for interventions. Decisions about interventions 1.5.1 Discuss the possible benefits and risks of interventions with adults who have an indication for valve intervention. Include in the discussion: • the benefits to quality of life (both in the short and long term) • prosthetic valve durability • the risks associated with the procedures • the type of access for surgery (median sternotomy, minimally invasive surgery or, for people at high surgical risk, transcatheter) • the possible need for other cardiac procedures in the future. Follow the recommendations in the NICE guidelines on shared decision making and patient experience in adult NHS services and base decisions on the type of intervention on patient characteristics and preferences. 1.5.2 When surgery is agreed, base the decision on the type of surgery (median sternotomy or minimally invasive surgery) on patient characteristics and preferences. If minimally invasive surgery is the agreed option and is not available locally, refer the person to another centre. For a short explanation of why the
