Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


patient characteristics and preferences. If minimally invasive surgery is the agreed option and is not available locally, refer the person to another centre. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on decisions about interventions. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review H: transcatheter intervention, surgery or conservative management in heart valve disease. Aortic valve disease For NHS England and NHS Improvement's position on transcatheter aortic valve implantation for people at low or intermediate surgical risk, see the implementation strategy for transcatheter aortic valve implantation. 1.5.3 Offer surgery, if suitable (by median sternotomy or minimally invasive surgery), as first-line intervention for adults with severe aortic stenosis, aortic regurgitation or mixed aortic valve disease and an indication for surgery who are at low or intermediate surgical risk. TAVI is not cost effective for people at low or intermediate surgical risk at the current list price. 1.5.4 Offer TAVI, if suitable, to adults with non-bicuspid severe aortic stenosis who are at high surgical risk or if surgery is unsuitable. 1.5.5 See the recommendations on using TAVI in the NICE interventional procedures guidance on transcatheter aortic valve implantation for aortic stenosis, including entering the details of all people undergoing TAVI into the UK TAVI registry. See also the NICE interventional procedures guidance on sutureless aortic valve replacement in aortic stenosis and balloon valvuloplasty for aortic valve stenosis. See NHS England's clinical commissioning policy on transcatheter aortic valve implantation for aortic stenosis. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on interventions for aortic valve disease. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review H: transcatheter intervention, surgery or conservative management in heart valve disease. Mitral stenosis 1.5.6 Consider transcatheter valvotomy for adults with rheumatic severe mitral stenosis, if the valve is suitable for this procedure. 1.5.7 Offer surgical mitral valve replacement to adults with rheumatic severe mitral stenosis if transcatheter valvotomy is unsuitable. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on interventions for mitral stenosis. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review H: transcatheter intervention, surgery or conservative management in
