Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


rationale and impact section on interventions for mitral stenosis. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review H: transcatheter intervention, surgery or conservative management in heart valve disease. Mitral regurgitation Primary mitral regurgitation 1.5.8 Offer surgical mitral valve repair (by median sternotomy or minimally invasive surgery) to adults with severe primary mitral regurgitation and an indication for repair, if surgery is suitable. 1.5.9 Offer surgical mitral valve replacement (by median sternotomy or minimally invasive surgery) to adults with severe primary mitral regurgitation and an indication for surgery, if the valve is not suitable for repair and surgery is suitable. 1.5.10 Consider transcatheter edge-to-edge repair, if suitable, for adults with severe primary mitral regurgitation and symptoms, if surgery is unsuitable. See NHS England's clinical commissioning policy on percutaneous mitral valve leaflet repair for primary degenerative mitral regurgitation in adults and the NICE interventional procedures guidance on percutaneous mitral valve leaflet repair for mitral regurgitation and thoracoscopically assisted mitral valve surgery. Secondary mitral regurgitation 1.5.11 Consider surgical mitral valve repair (by median sternotomy or minimally invasive surgery) for adults with severe secondary mitral regurgitation who are having cardiac surgery for another indication, if surgery is suitable. 1.5.12 Consider surgical mitral valve replacement (by median sternotomy or minimally invasive surgery) for adults with severe secondary mitral regurgitation who are having cardiac surgery for another indication, if the valve is not suitable for repair and surgery is suitable. 1.5.13 Offer medical management to adults with heart failure and severe secondary mitral regurgitation, if surgery is unsuitable. 1.5.14 Consider transcatheter mitral edge-to-edge repair for adults with heart failure and severe secondary mitral regurgitation, if surgery is unsuitable and they remain symptomatic on medical management. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on interventions for mitral regurgitation. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review H: transcatheter intervention, surgery or conservative management in heart valve disease. Tricuspid regurgitation 1.5.15 Consider surgical tricuspid valve repair at the time of mitral valve surgery when tricuspid regurgitation is moderate or severe. 1.5.16 Consider surgical tricuspid valve repair at the time of aortic valve surgery when tricuspid regurgitation is severe. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on
