Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


surgery when tricuspid regurgitation is severe. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on interventions for tricuspid regurgitation. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review H: transcatheter intervention, surgery or conservative management in heart valve disease. 1.6 Repeat intervention 1.6.1 Consider transcatheter or redo surgical intervention for adults with severe aortic degeneration of a biological prosthetic valve and symptoms. Take into account the following factors to inform a shared decision about the choice of intervention: • the short- and long-term benefits • type of valve dysfunction and prosthesis • the risks associated with the procedure • the possible need for other cardiac procedures in the future. See the NICE interventional procedures guidance on using transapical transcatheter mitral valve-in-valve implantation for a failed surgically implanted mitral valve bioprosthesis, transapical transcatheter mitral valve- in-ring implantation after failed annuloplasty for mitral valve repair and valve- in-valve TAVI for aortic bioprosthetic dysfunction. For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation and how it might affect practice, see rationale and impact section on repeat intervention. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review I: repeat intervention for failure of biological or repaired valves. 1.7 Anticoagulation and antiplatelet therapy 1.7.1 Do not offer anticoagulation after surgical biological valve replacement unless there are other indications for anticoagulation. 1.7.2 Consider aspirin, or clopidogrel if aspirin is not tolerated, after TAVI. 1.7.3 If people have other indications for anticoagulation or antiplatelet therapy, follow the recommendations in the NICE guidelines on atrial fibrillation and acute coronary syndromes. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on anticoagulation and antiplatelet therapy. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review J: anticoagulant and/or antiplatelet therapy for biological prosthetic valves and after valve repair. 1.8 Monitoring after an intervention 1.8.1 Base decisions on the frequency and type of monitoring for adults who have had an intervention (valve repair or replacement) for valve disease on: • durability of the prosthetic valve or durability of the repair • the presence of another condition, including other heart disease • residual valve abnormality or consequences of the procedure, for example, paravalvular leak • concerns about abnormal function
