Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


the repair • the presence of another condition, including other heart disease • residual valve abnormality or consequences of the procedure, for example, paravalvular leak • concerns about abnormal function of the prosthetic valve • the patient's wishes. Advise people and their family members or carers (as appropriate) to seek advice if the heart condition deteriorates. For a short explanation of why the committee made this recommendation and how it might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on monitoring after an intervention. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review K: monitoring in people with repaired or replaced heart valves. 1.9 Information and advice 1.9.1 Follow the NICE guideline on shared decision making and the recommendations in the NICE guideline on patient experience in adult NHS services on: • involvement of family members and carers • communication • information • tailoring healthcare services. 1.9.2 Consider providing a point of contact for accessing specialist advice between appointments. 1.9.3 Be aware of the psychological impact on the person receiving a diagnosis of valve disease, whether or not they have symptoms. Consider the person's needs for additional information and support. 1.9.4 Provide information and advice to adults with valve disease about: • the expected progression and prognosis of their condition, including the likely length of an asymptomatic stage • any need for intervention, including the type of intervention • pregnancy, if appropriate • the possible effects of other conditions on long-term outcomes • rehabilitation and long-term outcomes • palliative care, if appropriate, including how to access this. 1.9.5 Provide information and support to young adults about transition from paediatric to adult services, in line with the NICE guideline on transition from children's to adults' services for young people using health or social care services. For a short explanation of why the committee made these recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on information and advice. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review L: information and advice. Terms used in this guideline This section defines terms that have been used in a particular way for this guideline. Degenerated Degenerated covers progressive degeneration and does not include failure of the valve due to endocarditis or thrombosis. Risk of surgery This is calculated using EuroSCORE II. People have low surgical risk if they score less than 4%,
