Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


include failure of the valve due to endocarditis or thrombosis. Risk of surgery This is calculated using EuroSCORE II. People have low surgical risk if they score less than 4%, intermediate risk if they score between 4% and 8% and high risk if they score more than 8%. Severe valve disease Severity of valve disease is defined in line with the British Society of Echocardiography guidelines on the assessment of aortic stenosis, the tricuspid and pulmonary valves, and mitral valve disease. Specialist assessment and advice This could include assessment and advice from a cardiologist with expertise in heart valve disease, a multidisciplinary team or a heart valve clinic. Suitability for transcatheter aortic valve implantation Suitability for transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) depends on: • an appropriate access for inserting the TAVI catheter • the morphology of the valve, aortic root and ascending aorta • the degree and distribution of calcium in the aortic valve. It is an option for: • All people expected to have an unacceptably high risk of mortality or morbidity as a result of surgery (for example, because of a risk of infection in people who are immunosuppressed). See also the definition of high risk of surgery according to EuroSCORE II. • All people expected to have unacceptably strenuous and prolonged recovery from surgery and an extended need for rehabilitation because of frailty, reduced mobility, or musculoskeletal conditions. • All people with low life expectancy, either because of their age or because they have life-limiting comorbidities. Suitability for transcatheter edge-to-edge repair Suitability for transcatheter edge-to-edge repair depends on: • the morphology of the person's valve • the feasibility of using transoesophageal echocardiography to guide the procedure • the person's fitness for general anaesthesia. Recommendations for research The guideline committee has made the following recommendations for research. Key recommendations for research 1 Monitoring when there is no current need for intervention What is the most clinically and cost-effective monitoring (type and frequency of test) for adults with asymptomatic mild or moderate heart valve disease (aortic stenosis, aortic regurgitation, mitral stenosis, mitral regurgitation and tricuspid regurgitation) and no current need for intervention? For a short explanation of why the committee made the recommendation for research, see the rationale section on monitoring where there is no current need for intervention. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review G: monitoring of people with heart valve
