Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


on monitoring where there is no current need for intervention. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review G: monitoring of people with heart valve disease and no current indication for intervention. 2 Interventions for tricuspid regurgitation What is the most clinically and cost-effective management strategy for adults with tricuspid regurgitation? For a short explanation of why the committee made the recommendation for research, see the rationale section on interventions for tricuspid regurgitation. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review H: transcatheter intervention, surgery or conservative management in heart valve disease. 3 Interventions for a failed valve What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of transcatheter intervention compared with surgical redo intervention for adults with failing biological prosthetic tricuspid valves or failing repaired native tricuspid valves when either procedure is suitable? For a short explanation of why the committee made the recommendation for research, see the rationale section on repeat intervention. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review I: repeat intervention for failure of biological or repaired valves. 4 Monitoring after an intervention What is the most clinically and cost-effective timing, nature and frequency of follow up for different types of valve interventions, including repair and replacement with tissue or mechanical valves? For a short explanation of why the committee made the recommendation for research, see rationale section on monitoring after an intervention. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review K: monitoring in people with repaired or replaced heart valves. 5 Information and advice What are the information and advice needs of all adult age groups with heart valve disease of all severities and stages? For a short explanation of why the committee made the recommendation for research, see the rationale section on information and advice. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review L: information and advice. Other recommendations for research 6 Indications for interventions – stress testing or echocardiography What is the prognostic value of severe mitral regurgitation unmasked on exercise echocardiography in adults with symptomatic non-severe mitral regurgitation at rest? What is the prognostic value of parameters observed on exercise stress testing and exercise stress echocardiography in asymptomatic severe aortic regurgitation? 7 Indications for interventions – CT or MRI In adults with aortic or primary mitral regurgitation in whom
