Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


exercise stress testing and exercise stress echocardiography in asymptomatic severe aortic regurgitation? 7 Indications for interventions – CT or MRI In adults with aortic or primary mitral regurgitation in whom the need for intervention is unclear after echocardiography, what is the prognostic value and cost effectiveness of cardiac MRI to assess the severity of valvular regurgitation? In adults with aortic or mitral regurgitation in whom the need for intervention is unclear after echocardiography, what is the prognostic value and cost effectiveness of left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) measured on cardiac MRI to assess the need for intervention? In adults with asymptomatic severe aortic stenosis what is the prognostic value and cost effectiveness of LVEF measured on cardiac MRI to assess the need for intervention? In adults with asymptomatic severe tricuspid regurgitation what is the prognostic value and cost effectiveness of cardiac MRI for assessment of the right ventricle to assess the need for intervention? 8 Indications for interventions – global longitudinal strain In adults with severe heart valve disease what is the prognostic value and cost effectiveness of global longitudinal strain to assess the need for intervention? In adults with asymptomatic, severe aortic regurgitation or mitral regurgitation what is the prognostic value and cost effectiveness of B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) to assess the need for intervention? 9 Pharmacological management for adults with heart valve disease What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, beta-blockers and diuretics for adults with severe aortic stenosis? What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, beta-blockers and calcium channel blockers, including compared with placebo, for adults with aortic regurgitation? What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, beta-blockers and diuretics for adults with primary severe mitral regurgitation? What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of beta-blockers for adults over 75 years with non-rheumatic/calcific mitral stenosis, in both sinus rhythm and atrial fibrillation? What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of pharmacological management of heart failure for adults with heart failure and severe aortic stenosis, severe aortic regurgitation or severe mitral regurgitation? 10 Monitoring when there is no current need for intervention What is the most clinically and cost-effective monitoring strategy (type and frequency of test) for adults with asymptomatic severe heart valve disease (aortic regurgitation, mitral stenosis, mitral regurgitation or tricuspid regurgitation) and no current indication for
