Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


cost-effective monitoring strategy (type and frequency of test) for adults with asymptomatic severe heart valve disease (aortic regurgitation, mitral stenosis, mitral regurgitation or tricuspid regurgitation) and no current indication for intervention? What is the most clinically and cost-effective monitoring strategy (type and frequency of test) for adults with symptomatic moderate heart valve disease (aortic stenosis, aortic regurgitation, mitral stenosis, mitral regurgitation and tricuspid regurgitation) and no current indication for intervention? 11 Interventions What is the most clinically and cost-effective management strategy for adults with calcific mitral stenosis and an indication for intervention? 12 Anticoagulation and antiplatelet therapy What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of single or dual antiplatelet therapies or anticoagulants compared with placebo after transcatheter or surgical valve replacement (implantation) with biological prosthesis and after valve repair? In adults with biological valve replacement, what effect does anticoagulation or antiplatelet therapy have on long-term valve function and outcomes? 13 Repeat interventions What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of transcatheter intervention compared with surgical redo intervention for adults with failing biological prosthetic aortic valves when either procedure is suitable? What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of transcatheter intervention compared with surgical redo intervention for adults with failing biological prosthetic mitral valves when either procedure is suitable? Rationale and impact These sections briefly explain why the committee made the recommendations and how they might affect practice. Referral for echocardiography Recommendations 1.1.1 and 1.1.2 Why the committee made the recommendations Murmur alone Limited evidence showed that murmur is an indicator of valve disease. But the evidence also showed that a substantial proportion of people with a murmur do not have valve disease confirmed by a reference test. The committee agreed that 'innocent' murmurs can occur, particularly during the teenage and young adult years and in pregnancy. These are difficult to differentiate from pathological murmurs by clinical examination alone. The evidence was not strong enough to recommend that everyone with a murmur should be referred for echocardiography. The committee agreed that this would be a change in practice, would increase pressure on echocardiography services and would offer uncertain benefit. However, when the nature of the murmur, family history, age or medical history suggest possible valve disease, echocardiography should be considered to establish a diagnosis. Systolic murmur with a reduced second heart sound Evidence suggested that the presence of a systolic heart murmur plus a reduced second heart sound had good specificity
