Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


establish a diagnosis. Systolic murmur with a reduced second heart sound Evidence suggested that the presence of a systolic heart murmur plus a reduced second heart sound had good specificity for aortic stenosis confirmed by echocardiography. The recommendation specifies ejection systolic murmur because this, combined with a reduced second heart sound, is a classic indicator of aortic stenosis and is most often present in severe aortic stenosis. Although this was based on only a few studies, the committee agreed that people with these features should be referred for echocardiography. Because of the limited evidence identified, this recommendation was limited to those in whom heart valve disease was considered a possible explanation of these signs based on the nature of the murmur, family history, age or medical history. Murmur with other symptoms or signs Studies showed that echocardiography detected valve disease in a higher proportion of people with murmur plus other signs and symptoms (abnormal ECG, angina, breathlessness, peripheral oedema) than in people with murmur alone. That is, murmur plus other signs or symptoms had a higher specificity for echocardiography confirmed valve disease. Again, this was based on a few studies only, so the committee agreed that the nature of the murmur, family history, age or medical history should also suggest valve disease as a possibility. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendations reflect current practice. Return to recommendations Referral for urgent specialist assessment or urgent echocardiography Recommendations 1.1.3 to 1.1.5 Why the committee made the recommendations Evidence showed that more cases of severe valve disease were picked up when a murmur plus other signs or symptoms were present. The committee agreed that mild and moderate valve disease does not usually present with these symptoms and using these criteria for referral would not result in unnecessary referral for urgent specialist assessment or echocardiography in most cases. People with exertional syncope and a systolic murmur need an urgent diagnosis because exertional syncope caused by aortic stenosis has a high risk of a poor outcome. The diagnosis must be made quickly to allow appropriate management, which would likely include intervention if severe aortic stenosis is confirmed. Depending on local availability, an echocardiogram may be faster than direct specialist referral, which would include echocardiography, so the committee agreed to recommend either for this group. The committee agreed that the assessment or echocardiogram should be done within 2 weeks. For people with severe symptoms
