Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


echocardiography, so the committee agreed to recommend either for this group. The committee agreed that the assessment or echocardiogram should be done within 2 weeks. For people with severe symptoms (New York Heart Association classification III to IV or perceived by the person as severe) and a murmur, but without exertional syncope, the committee agreed that urgent specialist assessment within 2 weeks, which would include echocardiography, should be considered. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendations reflect current practice. Return to recommendations Referral to a specialist after echocardiography Recommendations 1.1.6 and 1.1.7 Why the committee made the recommendations Across the included studies, moderate and severe valve disease was consistently associated with more adverse outcomes than 'mild' or 'mild and moderate' valve disease. Despite limited evidence for each specific type of valve disease, the committee agreed that specialist referral should be offered to those with moderate or severe disease. This is consistent with current practice. The evidence could not be used to recommend that people with mild valve disease should never be referred to a specialist, because outcomes were not compared with those without valve disease. However, the committee stressed that patients and healthcare professionals should be aware that mild valve disease is very common in people over 70, it seldom causes symptoms and does not progress in most cases. The committee recommended that people with bicuspid aortic valve disease of any severity (including mild disease) should be offered specialist referral because its progression is different to other types of valve disease, it can be associated with aortopathy and in practice is usually referred. How the recommendations might affect practice The committee agreed that it is current practice for everyone with moderate or severe valve disease to be referred to a specialist, regardless of the type of disease and whether it is primary or secondary. The recommendation on moderate and severe valve disease would therefore not lead to a change in practice. For mild valve disease, there is currently variation in specialist referral, with some unnecessary referrals being made. Although the recommendation does not preclude referral for this group, it may reassure individuals with mild valve disease, reduce the number of unnecessary referrals and be cost saving. The recommendations covering bicuspid aortic valve disease were considered to reflect current practice. Return to recommendations Information, referral and specialist assessment for pregnant women and women considering pregnancy Recommendations 1.1.8 to 1.1.13 Why
