Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


bicuspid aortic valve disease were considered to reflect current practice. Return to recommendations Information, referral and specialist assessment for pregnant women and women considering pregnancy Recommendations 1.1.8 to 1.1.13 Why the committee made the recommendations The committee recognised that the proportion of pregnant women with valve disease is small compared with the number of women with valve disease who may be considering pregnancy. These women need to carefully consider the impact of treatment on any future pregnancy and should be given advice before making a treatment decision. This should include advice on contraception and planned pregnancy for women with severe valve disease, and consideration of the type of valve they receive if surgery is performed. It may be appropriate for their clinician to seek specialist advice to inform this decision from a cardiologist with expertise in the care of pregnant women. The committee noted that healthcare professionals without specialist expertise may inappropriately advise women against becoming pregnant. They agreed that some women with valve disease who may wish to become pregnant or who are pregnant should be referred to a cardiologist with specialist expertise. The committee highlighted that only women with moderate or severe disease on echocardiography, bicuspid aortic valve disease with associated aortopathy or prosthetic valves need referral. Women with mild disease, for example, aortic regurgitation or mitral valve prolapse without regurgitation, do not need a referral. The committee acknowledged that an ejection systolic flow murmur is present in most pregnant women and is not a cause for concern. They also noted that there is no official subspecialty or national accreditation for cardiologists with a specialist interest in pregnancy. How the recommendations might affect practice The committee acknowledged that it is not current practice to refer women who are considering pregnancy to a cardiologist with specialist expertise. Although moderate or severe heart valve disease is relatively rare in women of childbearing age, they still represent an important group of patients. Healthcare centres offering specialised support to women considering pregnancy are not widespread, so the committee expect a moderate change in practice in those centres. Return to recommendations Pharmacological management to improve prognosis Why the committee made the recommendations There was no evidence that pharmacological management can slow the progression of heart valve disease, only evidence that statins improve prognosis in aortic stenosis. The evidence showed that statins reduced cardiac mortality compared with placebo for adults with aortic stenosis. The
