Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


of heart valve disease, only evidence that statins improve prognosis in aortic stenosis. The evidence showed that statins reduced cardiac mortality compared with placebo for adults with aortic stenosis. The committee agreed that this benefit is because of an improvement in overall cardiovascular health rather than a direct effect on the aortic stenosis. Therefore, no recommendation was made and statins should be used in line with the NICE guideline on cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification. There was not enough evidence for the committee to make recommendations on pharmacological management of other conditions (for example, systemic hypertension) in people who also have heart valve disease. The committee decided to make recommendations for research to inform pharmacological management using common treatments (ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers and diuretics) in adults with aortic stenosis, aortic regurgitation or mitral regurgitation. These are important areas of uncertainty in current UK clinical practice. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendation reflects current practice, so the committee agreed there is unlikely to be a significant resource impact. Pharmacological management of heart failure in heart valve disease Recommendations 1.2.1 and 1.2.2 Why the committee made the recommendation Some evidence showed that beta-blockers reduced hospital stay for heart failure and increased exercise tolerance compared with usual care in adults with mitral stenosis. As with all other indications for beta-blockers, some adults with mitral stenosis stopped beta-blockers because of adverse events (weakness, dizziness and shortness of breath). But the committee agreed that in their experience these medicines offer overall benefit for people with moderate to severe mitral stenosis and heart failure. The studies included younger people than in UK clinical practice, with mitral stenosis often being because of rheumatic fever. Patients also had atrial fibrillation. The committee agreed to make a recommendation for research to inform future use of beta-blockers for older adults with non-rheumatic calcific mitral stenosis, which is currently more common in the UK than rheumatic mitral stenosis, in sinus rhythm or atrial fibrillation. Although a recommendation to consider beta-blockers in people with moderate to severe mitral stenosis and heart failure was made, there was not enough evidence for the committee to make recommendations on the use of beta-blockers in other types of heart valve disease. Similarly, there was not enough evidence to make recommendations on other drugs for the management of heart failure in heart valve disease.
