Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


beta-blockers in other types of heart valve disease. Similarly, there was not enough evidence to make recommendations on other drugs for the management of heart failure in heart valve disease. They agreed to make a recommendation for research on the pharmacological management of heart failure in adults with severe aortic stenosis, aortic regurgitation, and mitral regurgitation. How the recommendation might affect practice The recommendation reflects current practice, so the committee agreed there is unlikely to be a significant resource impact. Return to recommendations Indications for interventions Recommendation 1.3.1 Why the committee made the recommendation Severe symptomatic heart valve disease has a poor prognosis and there is no treatment for the symptoms other than an intervention on the valve. Because of this, the committee recommended that an intervention should be offered to this group. The evidence to support this recommendation is discussed under the different types of valve disease in the section on intervention. How the recommendation might affect practice The recommendation reflects current practice. Return to the recommendation Indications for interventions for adults with aortic stenosis Recommendations 1.3.2 to 1.3.5 Why the committee made the recommendations Echocardiography A peak aortic jet velocity more than 5 m/s was a risk factor for increased mortality (all-cause and cardiac or cardiovascular) and sudden death in people with asymptomatic severe aortic stenosis who had not had a valve intervention. An aortic valve area less than 0.6 cm2 was also associated with increased all-cause mortality, both before and after valve intervention in adults with asymptomatic severe aortic stenosis. A left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) less than 55% was the best marker of early myocardial decompensation, being linked to increased mortality in adults with asymptomatic severe aortic stenosis. Raised B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP), particularly when 2 to 3 times the normal level, was a risk factor for all-cause mortality, before and after valve intervention, for people with asymptomatic severe aortic stenosis and a preserved ejection fraction. The committee agreed that this would also apply to N-terminal proBNP (NT-proBNP), which is more widely used currently in the UK than BNP. Some of these indicators were broadly in line with current practice and the experience of the committee. In addition, the evidence for increased mortality was strong, including for BNP. Therefore, the committee agreed that these indicators of poorer prognosis should prompt a discussion about the possible need for referral for intervention in people with asymptomatic severe aortic
