Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


for BNP. Therefore, the committee agreed that these indicators of poorer prognosis should prompt a discussion about the possible need for referral for intervention in people with asymptomatic severe aortic stenosis. Recommendations were limited to considering referral because the evidence was low to very low quality. There was some evidence of increased mortality in people with asymptomatic severe aortic stenosis and a global longitudinal strain less than 14.7% or 15%, even when ejection fraction was preserved. However, there is some concern about reproducibility of measurements. The committee agreed that further research in this area would help to inform future guidance, so they made a recommendation for research. Stress testing and stress echocardiography Despite limitations in the quality of the evidence, the committee agreed that there was enough to show that symptoms revealed during exercise testing predict a poor outcome in people with asymptomatic severe aortic stenosis. They noted that some people may not report symptoms because they have adapted, for example, by reducing their activity. Exercise testing may therefore reveal these symptoms, which is an indication for intervention. There was evidence from 2 studies, but with limitations, that no increase in valve area on dobutamine stress testing was associated with worse outcome in symptomatic low-flow low-gradient aortic stenosis. Point estimates and confidence intervals from both studies were consistent with this being a risk factor for poor outcome. Severe aortic stenosis is suggested if a person with low-gradient aortic stenosis has an LVEF less than 50% and a valve area less than 1 cm2 at rest. Based on the evidence and the committee's experience, this can be confirmed on dobutamine stress testing if their valve area stays below 1 cm2 and their mean gradient rises above 40 mmHg. This would therefore be an indication for intervention. Cardiac MRI and cardiac CT The evidence showed that a higher aortic valve calcium score measured by cardiac CT indicates a worse prognosis for people with aortic stenosis. This could be because it is an index of the severity of aortic stenosis or because it is a marker of more widespread vascular disease. This was supported by the knowledge and experience of the committee, who noted that a more calcified aortic valve is associated with more severe aortic stenosis. However, the mechanism of aortic stenosis in bicuspid aortic valves or in rheumatic disease is different, and cardiac CT would not be as relevant for monitoring
