Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


more severe aortic stenosis. However, the mechanism of aortic stenosis in bicuspid aortic valves or in rheumatic disease is different, and cardiac CT would not be as relevant for monitoring valve calcium. Most of the evidence suggested that myocardial fibrosis was associated with increased risk of a poor outcome in severe aortic stenosis. This was in line with the committee's experience that myocardial fibrosis in general, not only in aortic stenosis, is associated with a worse prognosis. Furthermore, myocardial fibrosis in people with severe aortic stenosis indicates early decompensation and the possible need for early intervention to stop progression, because mid-wall fibrosis cannot be reversed or improved by intervention. The committee agreed that follow up should be enhanced and further assessment should be offered in those with mid-wall fibrosis to check for symptoms and enable earlier aortic valve intervention to improve prognosis. How the recommendations might affect practice These recommendations largely reflect current best practice, although there is local variation and not all healthcare professionals will know that all of these thresholds should lead to referral for intervention. However, the threshold of LVEF less than 55% does represent a change from current practice, because some centres use a threshold of less than 50%. However, for most adults this will mean earlier rather than additional intervention, with subsequent improvement in survival and quality of life. Cardiac MRI is not currently used by all centres to assess aortic stenosis. The recommendation to consider enhanced follow up and further assessment if mid-wall fibrosis is detected by cardiac MRI should not mean a change in practice because it will be implemented only when cardiac MRI data is available. Return to recommendations Indications for intervention for adults with aortic regurgitation Recommendation 1.3.6 Why the committee made the recommendation Echocardiography The committee agreed that it is established practice to consider intervention for people with severe aortic regurgitation and reduced cardiac function. Severity is defined in line with British Society of Echocardiography guidelines. People with aortic regurgitation are often younger than people with other types of valve disease and benefit from timely intervention. Evidence showed that when LVEF was less than 55%, the risk of cardiovascular mortality or heart failure after intervention was higher. End systolic diameter index (ESDI) is also a measure of systolic dysfunction. Evidence showed an increased risk of left ventricular systolic dysfunction or death when ESDI was more than 24 mm/m2. The committee
