Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


index (ESDI) is also a measure of systolic dysfunction. Evidence showed an increased risk of left ventricular systolic dysfunction or death when ESDI was more than 24 mm/m2. The committee agreed that either of these 2 indicators of early myocardial decompensation should prompt discussion of possible intervention for asymptomatic severe aortic regurgitation. Recommendations were limited because of the evidence included being low to very low quality. There was not enough evidence to include BNP level as an indicator for referral for intervention for people with asymptomatic severe aortic regurgitation. The committee agreed to make a recommendation for research to inform future practice. Stress testing and stress echocardiography No evidence was identified for stress testing and stress echocardiography in adults with asymptomatic severe aortic regurgitation. The committee agreed that further research could answer questions about when to intervene in this population. Therefore, they made a recommendation for research to identify prognostic factors in this population on stress testing. How the recommendation might affect practice The recommendation is in line with current practice. Return to recommendation Indications for intervention for adults with mitral regurgitation Recommendation 1.3.7 Why the committee made the recommendation Echocardiography Evidence showed that an LVEF less than 60% was a risk factor for increased cardiac mortality after intervention for asymptomatic severe mitral regurgitation. An ESDI greater than 22 mm/m2 was associated with onset of symptoms, left ventricular dysfunction, or death without intervention. This is broadly equivalent to the non-indexed ESD threshold of 45 mm used in current practice. The committee agreed that either of these indicators of early myocardial decompensation should prompt consideration of an intervention for people with asymptomatic severe mitral regurgitation. Recommendations were limited to considering an intervention because the evidence was low to very low quality. The evidence on valve morphology, atrial fibrillation and pulmonary hypertension was not robust enough to include these as independent indicators for referral for intervention. However, the evidence suggested that these were associated with increased mortality, so the committee agreed their presence should be considered when discussing the possibility of intervention. There was not enough evidence to include BNP level as an indicator for referral for intervention for people with asymptomatic severe mitral regurgitation. The committee agreed to make a recommendation for research to inform future practice. Stress testing and stress echocardiography Evidence from 2 studies showed that an increase of systolic pulmonary artery pressure (SPAP) to more than 60 mmHg
