Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


for research to inform future practice. Stress testing and stress echocardiography Evidence from 2 studies showed that an increase of systolic pulmonary artery pressure (SPAP) to more than 60 mmHg on exercise was associated with worse outcomes in people with mitral regurgitation (asymptomatic or asymptomatic/mildly symptomatic, moderate or severe). This agreed with the committee's experience. Although there is limited evidence that in severe mitral regurgitation, intervening before symptoms develop results in better outcomes, the committee agreed that this may be better. Evidence from 1 study showed that SPAP above 60 mmHg on exercise was associated with symptoms developing during follow up. There was not enough evidence for the committee to make a recommendation about symptomatic non-severe mitral regurgitation. The single small study identified suggested that an increase in effective regurgitant orifice area of 13 mm2 or more on exercise may indicate a worse outcome for this group. But the committee were not confident in this result and so made a recommendation for research to inform future practice. How the recommendation might affect practice The recommendation largely reflects current best practice, although there is local variation and not all healthcare professionals will know that all of these thresholds should lead to referral for intervention. Return to recommendation Monitoring when there is no current need for intervention Recommendations 1.4.1 and 1.4.2 Why the committee made the recommendations A single study from the US suggested that regular monitoring for people with severe asymptomatic aortic stenosis reduced all-cause mortality and hospital admission for heart failure. However, the study had limitations, including lack of applicability to UK clinical practice. The committee discussed that although frequency of monitoring currently varies in the UK, it is usually every 6 to 12 months. Some adults find 6-monthly monitoring reassuring. For others this leads to anxiety and they would prefer less frequent monitoring (for example, every 12 months). The committee agreed that the exact frequency of monitoring within the 6-month to 12-month timeframe should be determined by echocardiography results and shared decision making with the patient. Monitoring less often than every 12 months would be likely to lead to negative outcomes for the patient because valve changes in this group occur over months rather than years. However, monitoring less often than every 12 months may be suitable for a minority of patients who have demonstrated stability over several years. The recommendation covers all types of asymptomatic severe valve disease.
