Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


often than every 12 months may be suitable for a minority of patients who have demonstrated stability over several years. The recommendation covers all types of asymptomatic severe valve disease. In line with current practice, echocardiographic assessment every 3 to 5 years should be considered for adults with mild aortic or mitral stenosis. This would help to identify people with asymptomatic disease that has become more severe and for whom intervention may be appropriate. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendations are in line with current practice. Return to recommendations Decisions about interventions Recommendations 1.5.1 and 1.5.2 Why the committee made the recommendations The committee highlighted the importance of shared decision making when discussing interventions. This is to ensure that treatment options are fully explored, along with their risks and benefits. Specifically, the committee highlighted valve durability, the risks associated with the procedure, and the possible need for other cardiac procedures in the future. The committee agreed that in their clinical experience there was no difference between minimally invasive and standard surgery replacement in terms of outcomes when done by those with expertise in minimally invasive surgery. The decision should be based on patient characteristics and preferences. A lack of expertise in minimally invasive surgery locally should not be used as a reason for not performing a minimally invasive procedure. Adults should be referred to a centre where this expertise is available if the procedure is agreed as most suitable. The evidence to support this recommendation is reported under the different types of valve disease. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendations are expected to have a very small impact on current practice. Minimally invasive surgery will not be suitable for many patients. Those for whom it is suitable may still decide to have standard surgery after considering the possible benefits and risks of both options. Return to recommendations Interventions for aortic valve disease Recommendations 1.5.3 to 1.5.5 Why the committee made the recommendations Aortic stenosis when surgery is suitable Evidence from 8 randomised controlled trials (RCTs) showed no large or clear differences for most outcomes between transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) and surgery for adults with non-bicuspid aortic stenosis, including mortality outcomes and quality of life. However, a benefit of TAVI was identified for major bleeding and atrial fibrillation at 30 days, and length of hospital stay after the intervention. Absolute effects for other outcomes also suggested
