Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


a benefit of TAVI was identified for major bleeding and atrial fibrillation at 30 days, and length of hospital stay after the intervention. Absolute effects for other outcomes also suggested a benefit, but there was more uncertainty based on the confidence intervals. A harm of TAVI was identified for pacemaker implantation at 30 days. Although absolute effects also suggested a possible harm of TAVI in terms of mortality and rehospitalisation, the direction and size of the effect was much more uncertain for these outcomes and no clear difference between the 2 groups could be identified. Only 1 study reported data beyond 5 years, but only for all-cause mortality. The health economic model developed as part of the guideline looked for cost effectiveness over a lifetime. Therefore, it included evidence about the impact of complications in the long term, beyond 5 years, given the longer life expectancy for younger people with lower surgical risk. The results of the health economic model showed that TAVI at current prices was cost effective for people at high risk of surgery but not for people at low or intermediate risk. The committee agreed that if surgery is an option, it should be offered to those with severe aortic stenosis who are low or intermediate risk. Although all of the evidence identified was for non-bicuspid aortic stenosis, it was agreed that the recommendation should also apply to bicuspid aortic stenosis, because suitability of surgery does not depend on the type of aortic stenosis. TAVI is also considered to be more difficult in bicuspid aortic stenosis. Aortic stenosis when surgery is unsuitable Evidence showed benefits for TAVI for people with inoperable non-bicuspid severe aortic stenosis compared with pharmacological management at 1 to 5 years. These included benefits in all-cause mortality, cardiac mortality, need for another intervention during follow up, and hospital admission. However, at 30 days TAVI was associated with increased mortality, stroke or transient ischaemic attack, major bleeding, and major vascular complications. The committee noted that TAVI is the only intervention available for some people with symptomatic severe aortic stenosis. They agreed that pharmacological management is not sufficient to help symptoms in severe aortic stenosis and for some aortic stenosis can be fatal without an intervention. TAVI can improve outcomes in many cases. Two UK-based studies indicated that TAVI offers a good balance of benefits and costs in adults who cannot have surgery. The committee agreed
