Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


TAVI can improve outcomes in many cases. Two UK-based studies indicated that TAVI offers a good balance of benefits and costs in adults who cannot have surgery. The committee agreed to recommend TAVI, if suitable, for those with non-bicuspid severe aortic stenosis if surgery is unsuitable. TAVI is the only option for this group and was deemed cost effective in this population. All of the evidence identified was for non-bicuspid aortic stenosis. TAVI is considered to be more difficult for bicuspid aortic stenosis and the committee could not extrapolate the evidence to cover this population. Invasiveness of surgery Evidence was identified from 14 RCTs comparing minimally invasive surgery for aortic valve replacement with standard surgery by median sternotomy across different aortic valve disease populations. Some harms of minimally invasive surgery were observed, and 1 health economic study suggested that minimally invasive surgery was less cost effective than median sternotomy. However, the RCTs were small and a small number of events were observed for many outcomes. The health economic study was limited for the same reasons because it was based on 1 of the RCTs and was limited to a 12-month time- horizon. Although the committee agreed it is likely there would not be a large difference in outcomes after 12 months, this may be too short to draw conclusions about cost effectiveness over a lifetime. The committee highlighted that in their experience there was no difference between minimally invasive surgery and median sternotomy when done by those with expertise. The committee were also aware of certain advantages of minimally invasive surgery, for example, smaller incisions. The committee agreed not to limit the use of minimally invasive surgery and to recommend a choice with the decision based on patient characteristics and preferences. A lack of expertise in minimally invasive surgery locally should not be used as a reason for not performing a minimally invasive procedure and adults should be referred to a centre where there is expertise if this procedure is agreed as most suitable. Despite no direct evidence for bicuspid aortic stenosis, aortic regurgitation (bicuspid or non-bicuspid) and mixed aortic valve disease (aortic stenosis and regurgitation in the same person), the committee agreed that the type of aortic valve disease would not affect decisions about the invasiveness of surgery and the evidence could be extrapolated to any aortic valve disease. How the recommendations might affect practice TAVI for non-bicuspid aortic
