Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


would not affect decisions about the invasiveness of surgery and the evidence could be extrapolated to any aortic valve disease. How the recommendations might affect practice TAVI for non-bicuspid aortic stenosis when surgery is unsuitable The committee agreed that the use of TAVI is increasing, particularly when surgery is unsuitable and there are no other options for interventional procedures. It would be rare not to perform TAVI in these circumstances, but palliative care with pharmacological management is sometimes agreed. Therefore, the committee considered that the recommendation would represent a minimal change in practice and would not increase the number of TAVI procedures. Surgery for aortic stenosis when this is suitable The committee agreed that TAVI is usually reserved for when surgery is unsuitable or carries high risks of mortality. But data from the UK TAVI registry suggests that in recent years the procedure has been expanded to groups of people with lower surgical risk. The recommendation to offer TAVI to those with high surgical risk should have a moderate impact, as only 1.9% of surgeries are currently done in this group. The recommendation to offer surgery instead of TAVI to those with intermediate and low surgical risk should increase the number of surgeries and reduce TAVIs in this group. This will ultimately improve NHS efficiency. Minimally invasive surgery or median sternotomy for aortic valve disease Data suggests that between 5% and 10% of surgical isolated aortic valve replacements are done by minimally invasive surgery. If the recommendation leads to an increase in the number of aortic valve replacements being done by minimally invasive surgery, this could represent an important change in practice. There may be no increase in the short term, as more training in these procedures will be needed, but only in the long term when more centres will have the expertise and capacity of offering minimally invasive surgery. Return to recommendations Interventions for mitral stenosis Recommendations 1.5.6 and 1.5.7 Why the committee made the recommendations Evidence from 7 RCTs comparing transcatheter valvotomy with surgical valvotomy (either by minimally invasive or standard surgery) in people with rheumatic severe mitral stenosis demonstrated very few differences in outcomes. The committee agreed that surgical valvotomy is no longer commonly used in practice because similar results can be achieved with the transcatheter procedure, with less trauma and scarring and at a lower cost to the NHS. The evidence was limited by small studies,
