Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


because similar results can be achieved with the transcatheter procedure, with less trauma and scarring and at a lower cost to the NHS. The evidence was limited by small studies, often with only a small number of events, and most outcomes being graded as very low quality. The committee agreed that transcatheter valvotomy could be considered for adults with rheumatic severe mitral stenosis who need an intervention and for whom this procedure would be suitable. No evidence was identified for mitral valve replacement in those with rheumatic mitral stenosis when transcatheter valvotomy is not suitable. The committee agreed this it was important to make a recommendation for these people. Although no evidence was included, the condition would likely deteriorate without an intervention. It was not appropriate to extrapolate evidence from rheumatic mitral stenosis to calcific mitral stenosis because they are 2 very different pathologies. Because there was no evidence included for calcific mitral stenosis, the committee made a recommendation for research to inform future practice. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendations are in line with current practice. Return to the recommendations Interventions for mitral regurgitation Recommendations 1.5.8 to 1.5.14 Why the committee made the recommendations Repair or replacement when surgery is suitable Evidence from 3 RCTs demonstrated few differences between surgical repair and surgical replacement in those with severe mitral regurgitation. (One study included both primary and secondary mitral regurgitation; the other 2 studies covered secondary mitral regurgitation only). The largest effect was for the need for reintervention for secondary mitral regurgitation, with fewer repeat interventions needed in the replacement group. Overall, the included evidence was limited; all studies were very small, with very few events reported for most outcomes and substantial uncertainty in the effects reported. Most outcomes were graded as very low quality. The lack of stronger evidence is likely to be because surgical repair has been preferred to replacement in mitral valve surgery for the past few decades. This was based on observational evidence and because randomising to repair or replacement in people for whom repair is suitable was thought to be unethical. Based on these limitations, the committee made recommendations reflecting current practice for those with severe mitral regurgitation requiring an intervention, with surgical repair recommended in those for whom it is suitable and replacement when repair is not suitable. The committee noted that there are differences in the aetiology and treatment of primary
