Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


repair recommended in those for whom it is suitable and replacement when repair is not suitable. The committee noted that there are differences in the aetiology and treatment of primary and secondary mitral regurgitation. Although valve intervention is the next step for primary mitral regurgitation and an indication for intervention, for secondary mitral regurgitation the underlying heart failure is usually treated first. Therefore, the committee recommended that an intervention should be offered for severe primary mitral regurgitation and considered for secondary mitral regurgitation after optimisation of medical management. Invasiveness of surgery Evidence from 5 RCTs comparing minimally invasive surgery with median sternotomy for mitral regurgitation or mixed/unclear mitral valve disease demonstrated few differences. The studies were limited by small participant numbers and a small number of events for many reported outcomes. There was substantial uncertainty for most reported outcomes, a lack of long-term data for many outcomes, and most outcomes were graded as low or very low quality. Overall, when any larger differences were observed (for example, length of stay), these were for a benefit of minimally invasive procedures. A single health economic study suggested the cost of minimally invasive surgery was less per person than median sternotomy. However, the committee did not consider the included evidence to be strong enough to support recommending 1 type of surgery over the other. They agreed that median sternotomy and minimally invasive surgery should be options for those with mitral regurgitation requiring mitral valve surgery, with the decision being based on patient characteristics and patient preferences. A lack of expertise in minimally invasive surgery locally should not be used as a reason for not performing a minimally invasive procedure and patients should be referred to a centre where there is expertise if this procedure is agreed as most suitable. Transcatheter mitral valve repair in primary mitral regurgitation when surgery is unsuitable No clinical evidence was identified comparing transcatheter mitral valve repair with medical management for primary mitral regurgitation when surgery is not suitable. The committee noted that the lack of evidence may be because it is well established that medical management does not improve outcomes and transcatheter mitral valve repair is useful when surgery cannot be performed. One health economic study, based on a non-randomised registry, reported that transcatheter repair was cost effective compared with medical management in those with severe mitral regurgitation when surgery was not suitable. This study had limitations because
