Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


a non-randomised registry, reported that transcatheter repair was cost effective compared with medical management in those with severe mitral regurgitation when surgery was not suitable. This study had limitations because it included people with secondary mitral regurgitation and used data from a prospective, single-arm registry with a control group obtained retrospectively. A second Japanese study on a mixed population with secondary and primary mitral regurgitation found transcatheter repair with the MitraClip device to be cost effective. This study had some limitations too as the relative treatment effects were informed from a propensity score matching study rather than an RCT. A health economic model developed as part of this guideline did not find MitraClip to be cost effective for adults with secondary mitral regurgitation. However, the committee agreed that it was plausible that MitraClip would offer more benefits for people with primary mitral regurgitation because they are likely to have less residual disease affecting quality of life after the intervention. The committee agreed to recommend that transcatheter mitral valve repair should be considered for primary severe mitral regurgitation with symptoms when surgery is unsuitable. Transcatheter mitral valve repair in secondary mitral regurgitation when surgery is unsuitable Evidence was included from 3 RCTs comparing transcatheter mitral valve repair with medical management for secondary mitral regurgitation. Two of these were clearly in a population in which surgery was not suitable and covered the use of the MitraClip device; the third study covered a Carillon device rather than MitraClip and the population was unclear. Outcomes from all 3 studies were pooled if possible, in the clinical review, but the health economic modelling was limited to the population in which surgery was not suitable. The clinical review highlighted uncertainty in the results for 3 outcomes (all-cause mortality, cardiac mortality and onset/exacerbation of heart failure at 1 to 3 years or 2 to 3 years). Some studies demonstrated a benefit of transcatheter repair, some a harm (lack of benefit) and some no difference. One UK health economic study based on the results of the COAPT trial, which enrolled people with very severe secondary mitral regurgitation deemed inoperable, found that transcatheter edge-to-edge repair with MitraClip device had an incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) of about £30,000. A health economic model was developed as part of the guideline to investigate the cost effectiveness of using the MitraClip device when surgery is not suitable. The model demonstrated
