Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


£30,000. A health economic model was developed as part of the guideline to investigate the cost effectiveness of using the MitraClip device when surgery is not suitable. The model demonstrated that transcatheter mitral valve repair had a low chance of being cost effective at £20,000 per QALY gained, with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of £30,000 per QALY gained. These results are in line with the UK study identified in the literature review. The health economic model was largely based on results from the COAPT trial, which covered transcatheter mitral valve repair in severe secondary mitral regurgitation. This trial demonstrated substantial benefits over medical management alone when surgery was unsuitable. However, it was not considered to be cost effective at the current list price. For this reason, edge-to-edge mitral valve repair was not recommended over medical management. How the recommendations might affect practice Repair or replacement when surgery is suitable Edge-to-edge repair is not widely available in the NHS. Therefore, this recommendation may lead to a change in practice and increase the amount of percutaneous mitral intervention in those for whom it is suitable. Invasiveness of surgery The recommendations are in line with current practice. Transcatheter mitral valve repair in primary mitral regurgitation when surgery is unsuitable Transcatheter mitral valve repair is rarely done for primary mitral regurgitation when an intervention is needed and surgery is unsuitable, so the recommendation may lead to a change in practice. This procedure has only recently been commissioned by the NHS and its use is likely to increase now based on this commissioning. The recommendation is unlikely to increase use much beyond this. Transcatheter mitral valve repair in secondary mitral regurgitation when surgery is unsuitable Transcatheter mitral valve repair is not currently used for secondary mitral regurgitation because it has not been commissioned by the NHS for this. The recommendation is unlikely to lead to a change in practice. Return to recommendations Interventions for tricuspid regurgitation Recommendations 1.5.15 and 1.5.16 Why the committee made these recommendations A single RCT was identified comparing transcatheter repair plus optimal medical management with optimal medical management alone in people with severe, symptomatic tricuspid regurgitation and a high surgical risk score. Patients with associated tricuspid regurgitation have worse prognosis after mitral valve intervention than those with mild or no tricuspid regurgitation. There is strong evidence that secondary functional tricuspid regurgitation that is severe does not improve after fixing the mitral
