Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


mitral valve intervention than those with mild or no tricuspid regurgitation. There is strong evidence that secondary functional tricuspid regurgitation that is severe does not improve after fixing the mitral lesion. Moderate tricuspid regurgitation does remain stable in a few patients after mitral correction. However, in a significant number, it does not improve and may get worse. Tricuspid annuloplasty by an experienced surgeon (at the time of mitral surgery) is a quick procedure that reduces the amount of tricuspid regurgitation and may improve prognosis. Patients with associated tricuspid regurgitation have a worse prognosis after aortic valve intervention than those with mild or no tricuspid regurgitation. There is strong evidence (but not reviewed here) that secondary functional tricuspid regurgitation that is severe does not improve after fixing the left-sided lesion. Tricuspid annuloplasty by an experienced surgeon is a quick procedure that does reduce the amount of tricuspid regurgitation and may improve prognosis of these patients. The committee made a recommendation for research to inform future guidance. How the recommendations might affect practice These recommendations are in line with current practice. Return to recommendations Repeat intervention Recommendation 1.6.1 Why the committee made the recommendation No evidence was identified comparing surgery with medical management for people with failing biological prosthetic aortic valves. However, the committee agreed that surgery should be considered in this group because their condition may deteriorate if left without intervention on medical management. Similarly, no evidence was identified comparing transcatheter repeat intervention with medical management when surgery is unsuitable for people with failing biological prosthetic aortic valves. However, the committee agreed that repeat transcatheter intervention should be considered in this group because their condition may deteriorate if left without intervention on medical management. For people who can have surgery, there were no RCTs comparing transcatheter intervention with surgery for repeat intervention and the only included studies were non-randomised. The committee were not able to base recommendations on this because of the limitations with non-randomised evidence. Therefore, they recommended that a shared decision should be based on short- and longer-term benefits, the type of valve dysfunction and prosthesis, the risks associated with the procedure and the possible need for other cardiac procedures. The term 'degenerated' refers to progressive degeneration and does not include failure of the valve due to endocarditis or thrombosis. The recommendation was limited to those with symptoms because this was considered to be an indication for repeat intervention.
