Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


not include failure of the valve due to endocarditis or thrombosis. The recommendation was limited to those with symptoms because this was considered to be an indication for repeat intervention. The committee also made recommendations for research for repeat intervention for failing biological prosthetic aortic, mitral and tricuspid valves because the only available evidence was non-randomised. How the recommendation might affect practice When both transcatheter and surgical procedures are options for repeat intervention, the choice of procedure is usually based on individual patient characteristics although surgery may be done more often. When surgery is not an option, transcatheter intervention is used as the only alternative to medical management. The recommendation will therefore not represent a change in practice. Return to recommendation Anticoagulation and antiplatelet therapy Recommendations 1.7.1 to 1.7.3 Why the committee made the recommendations Anticoagulant and antiplatelet treatment after surgical biological valve replacement Evidence from a population without atrial fibrillation demonstrated an increased risk of major bleeding with vitamin K antagonist compared with single antiplatelet therapy (aspirin). No clear reduction in mortality or thromboembolic events was observed with vitamin K antagonist. Therefore, the committee agreed that anticoagulation should not be offered after surgical biological valve replacement unless there are other indications for anticoagulation. This covers both vitamin K antagonists and direct-acting oral anticoagulants (DOACs) because there was no evidence to show that DOACs are safe. One small study in people with atrial fibrillation suggested there may be no clear differences in outcomes between DOACs and vitamin K antagonists, and it is not common practice to use DOACs for this group. The committee agreed that if there is already an indication for anticoagulation or antiplatelet therapy, for example, because of atrial fibrillation, the existing NICE guidelines for these indications should be followed. Despite 1 study demonstrating a potential reduction in arterial thromboembolic events and vascular mortality with combined anticoagulant and antiplatelet therapy compared with anticoagulant therapy alone after surgical biological valve replacement, there was uncertainty around this result. This uncertainty, combined with further study limitations, including issues with the target international normalised ratio used and the selective population, meant that the study could not be used to inform general recommendations for surgical biological valve replacement. There was a lack of evidence comparing anticoagulant or antiplatelet therapy with no treatment after surgical biological valve replacement, so the committee made a recommendation for research. They made another recommendation for research to investigate
