Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


evidence comparing anticoagulant or antiplatelet therapy with no treatment after surgical biological valve replacement, so the committee made a recommendation for research. They made another recommendation for research to investigate the long-term effect of anticoagulant or antithrombotic therapy on valve function and outcomes after biological valve replacement because no long-term data was available. Single antiplatelet therapy after TAVI Evidence from 4 studies demonstrated a clinically important benefit of single antiplatelet therapy (aspirin) compared with dual antiplatelet therapy in reducing major and minor bleeding in the short-to-medium term. Based on this, the committee agreed that single rather than dual antiplatelet therapy should be considered after TAVI. As aspirin is used in practice, and this was used in all of the studies, aspirin was recommended, with clopidogrel specified as the alternative if aspirin was not tolerated. The committee were also aware of observational evidence that antiplatelets reduced the risk of valve thrombosis and improved valve durability over the long term. There was also evidence from 1 study demonstrating harms of DOACs compared with single antiplatelet therapy for most reported outcomes, including mortality, bleeding and withdrawal because of adverse events. This further supported the recommendation for single antiplatelet therapy. Because of the lack of evidence comparing anticoagulant and antiplatelet therapy with no treatment after TAVI, the committee made a recommendation for research. Valve repair No evidence was identified comparing different anticoagulant and antiplatelet treatments in adults who have had valve repair. The committee made a recommendation for research comparing anticoagulant and antiplatelet treatments with placebo after valve repair. How the recommendations might affect practice Anticoagulant and antiplatelet treatment after surgical biological valve replacement Practice is currently variable, with some centres offering vitamin K antagonists after surgical biological valve replacement. Therefore, the recommendation will lead to a change in practice in some centres. Single antiplatelet therapy after TAVI It is unusual for people not to receive at least single antiplatelet therapy after TAVI and many people receive dual antiplatelet therapy. The recommendation was not thought to represent a change in practice in terms of the number of people who receive some form of antiplatelet therapy after a transcatheter procedure. Return to recommendations Monitoring after an intervention Recommendation 1.8.1 Why the committee made the recommendation No evidence was found for the frequency of monitoring after an intervention for valve disease. Current practice is variable and depends on patient factors, such as comorbidities, other cardiac disease
