Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


No evidence was found for the frequency of monitoring after an intervention for valve disease. Current practice is variable and depends on patient factors, such as comorbidities, other cardiac disease or previous heart surgery, as well as the type of procedure performed (repair or replacement). Follow up also depends on the type of valve used for a replacement. The committee agreed that mechanical valves have good durability with a low risk of failure. In contrast, biological valves have lower durability with deterioration possible within 10 years. The committee noted that, although practice varies, mechanical valves may be monitored over the first 12 months and then only checked if problems develop. Monitoring is usually more frequent for biological valves – with some centres offering annual follow up starting from the year of the operation and others starting annual follow up after 5 years. Any concerns about abnormal valve function may also affect the frequency of monitoring, with more frequent follow up if there are concerns. The committee agreed that frequency of follow up should be discussed with the patient. Some people find more frequent monitoring reassuring whereas for others this leads to increased anxiety. People should be encouraged to seek advice if they feel that their condition has deteriorated. There is a higher risk of endocarditis in replacement valves and people should be encouraged to report symptoms. How the recommendation might affect practice The recommendation reflects current practice, which is variable and depends on various factors, such as valve durability and patient comorbidities and preferences. Return to recommendation Information and advice Recommendations 1.9.1 to 1.9.5 Why the committee made the recommendations Clear and consistent evidence outlined the negative impact of symptoms of valve disease and loss of control that led to feelings of despair and insecurity. In this context, a single point of contact for some people may increase the hope and security afforded between appointments. The committee also agreed that it was useful to list areas of information and advice that are important to people with valve disease to ensure that their expectations accurately match the likely course of their condition. Having this information will be beneficial for planning, reducing anxiety and supporting shared decision making. This may include relevant information for patients and carers (when appropriate) about the possibility of delirium after valve surgery, in line with the NICE guideline on delirium. From the evidence and their experience, the
