Heart valve disease presenting in adults: investigation and management
KEYWORDS: valve, committee, aortic, evidence, mitral, disease, intervention, regurgitation, valve disease, surgery, recommendations, severe, stenosis, adults, heart


information for patients and carers (when appropriate) about the possibility of delirium after valve surgery, in line with the NICE guideline on delirium. From the evidence and their experience, the committee noted the psychological impact of valve disease on a person, whether or not the person currently has symptoms. They agreed that clinicians should be aware of the potential psychological impact of receiving a diagnosis of heart valve disease and consider providing additional advice and support. The committee stressed the importance of individualised care and shared decision making and referenced the relevant NICE guidelines. Specific advice and support at the point of transition from paediatric to adult services was also agreed to be important to ensure young adults are given appropriate information on the likely progression of their valve disease and referrals to adult valve clinics. The committee noted the limitations of the available evidence, which was mostly from those being considered for TAVI. These people typically have more complex comorbidities, and their older age means that their hopes and fears are different from those of younger adults. Therefore, the committee made a recommendation for research on the information and advice needs of all adult age groups with valve disease of all severities and stages. Studies should include patient-reported outcomes and experiences of decision aids. How the recommendations might affect practice Currently not all adults with valve disease have a point of contact between appointments or psychological support, and so these recommendations will need a change by some providers. Return to recommendations Context The heart has 4 valves (aortic, mitral, tricuspid and pulmonary) that control blood flow. In heart valve disease, valve function can be impaired by: • stenosis, a narrowing or stiffening of the valve, which restricts its opening and obstructs the forward flow of blood • regurgitation, failure of the valve to close completely, which allows blood to flow backward. There can be stenosis and regurgitation of the same valve (mixed valve disease) or disease may affect more than one valve (multiple valve disease). Mitral and tricuspid heart valve disease can be primary or secondary. Primary disease affects the valve structure, whereas secondary disease results from enlargement or dysfunction of the heart chambers (atria or ventricles) with otherwise normal mitral or tricuspid valve structure. Heart valve disease can be congenital or acquired. Acquired valve degeneration is currently the main cause of heart valve disease, leading to the most
