Nephrolithiasis
KEYWORDS: stone, calcium, pubmed, stones, kidney, urine, oxalate, urinary, risk, acid, uric, patients, uric acid, day, renal


staghorn and require careful surgical removal of all of the stone material. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . OVERVIEW Urinary stone disease is a common clinical condition that afflicts 1 in 11 individuals in the United States and is increasing in incidence. It typically presents with renal colic symptoms following the passage of a calculus from the kidney to the ureter. The pathophysiology of kidney stone formation is diverse and includes a combination of genetic and environmental factors. In fact, kidney stone formation should not be viewed as a diagnosis but rather a symptom of an underlying abnormality. Evaluation of a kidney stone former with a detailed history, and appropriate laboratory and imaging studies help to identify risk factors for stone formation and provides an opportunity to institute therapy that reduces the risk of stone recurrence. This chapter reviews the epidemiology of kidney stone disease, discusses the pathophysiology underlying the most commonly encountered stone types, and details the evaluation and management of patients with nephrolithiasis. EPIDEMIOLOGY AND NATURAL HISTORY Epidemiology Nephrolithiasis is a common clinical condition encountered in both developed and developing countries. Its prevalence in the United States has more than doubled over the past 4 decades from 3.8% in 1976-1980 to 5.2% in 1988-1994 to 10.1% in 2015-2016 ( 1 , 2 ). Similar increases in the prevalence of nephrolithiasis have been reported in other developed countries ( 3 ). Factors underlying this rising prevalence include changes in diet and fluid intake, greater use of medications and procedures that predispose to stone formation, the association of stone disease with the rampant epidemics of obesity and type 2 diabetes, climate change, and increased use of abdominal imaging ( 2 ). In the United States, stone disease afflicts Caucasians at a greater frequency than Hispanics and African Americans ( 2 ). It is also more prevalent in men than women, although recent reports suggest a narrowing in this gender gap, with the greatest increase in stone incidence in recent years occurring in younger women ( 4 ). A marked geographic variability in the prevalence of nephrolithiasis is also reported, with 20-50% higher prevalence of stone disease in the U.S. Southeast (“stone belt”) than the Northwest, primarily due to differences in exposure to temperature, humidity, and sunlight ( 5 ). Recent predictions suggest a likely northward expansion of the present-day
