Nephrolithiasis
KEYWORDS: stone, calcium, pubmed, stones, kidney, urine, oxalate, urinary, risk, acid, uric, patients, uric acid, day, renal


Southeast (“stone belt”) than the Northwest, primarily due to differences in exposure to temperature, humidity, and sunlight ( 5 ). Recent predictions suggest a likely northward expansion of the present-day U.S. “stone belt” as an unanticipated result of global warming ( 6 ). In 2000, the total cumulative costs for caring for patients with urolithiasis were estimated at US $2.1 billion ( 7 ). The rising prevalence of obesity and diabetes, together with population growth, is projected to contribute to dramatic increases in the cost of urolithiasis by an additional $1.24 billion/year estimated by 2030 ( 8 ). Natural History RECURRENCE The natural history of stone disease was studied in detail in all validated cases presenting with incident kidney stones in Olmsted County, Minnesota between 1984 to 2003 and followed for stone recurrence through 2012 ( 9 ). For the first episode, 48% of patients passed their stone spontaneously with confirmation, 33% required surgery for stone removal, 8% presumably spontaneously passed their stone (without confirmation), and 12% had no documentation of passage ( 9 ). This cohort was followed for a median of 11.2 years with recurrence occurring in 11%, 20%, 31%, and 39% at 2, 5, 10, and 15 years, respectively. The stone recurrence rates per 100 person-years were 3.4 after the first stone episode, 7.1 after the second episode, 12.1 after the third episode, and 17.6 after the fourth or higher episode ( 10 ). Independent risk factors for incident stone recurrence include younger age; male sex; higher body mass index; family history of stones; pregnancy; history of a brushite, struvite, or uric acid stone; number of kidney stones on imaging; and diameter of the largest kidney stone on imaging ( 10 ). These studies have led to the development and refinement of the Recurrence Of Kidney Stone (ROKS) tool to predict the risk of symptomatic recurrence by using readily available clinical characteristics of patients with kidney stones ( 9 , 10 ). POTENTIAL COMPLICATIONS Urinary Tract Infection There is a bi-directional relationship between urinary tract infections (UTI) and nephrolithiasis, as chronic UTIs lead to the formation of struvite stones, and stone disease increases the risk of UTI. Struvite stones typically occur in patients infected with urea-splitting organisms, and their pathogenesis and management are described in more detail in a later section. Gram-negative bacilli are the most common pathogen in UTI in patients with urolithiasis. Independent risk factors
