Nephrolithiasis
KEYWORDS: stone, calcium, pubmed, stones, kidney, urine, oxalate, urinary, risk, acid, uric, patients, uric acid, day, renal


and their pathogenesis and management are described in more detail in a later section. Gram-negative bacilli are the most common pathogen in UTI in patients with urolithiasis. Independent risk factors for UTI among patients with kidney stones include female gender, older age, presence of obstruction, and higher number of kidney stones ( 11 ). Low fluid intake is a reversible risk factor for both UTI and nephrolithiasis ( 12 ). Infectious ( 13 ) as well as non-infectious stones ( 14 ) can harbor bacteria inside, making the bacteria resistant to antimicrobial therapy. In patients with recurrent UTIs, removal of non-struvite non-obstructing stones is associated with elimination of further UTI recurrence in nearly 90% of cases ( 15 ). Chronic Kidney Disease and End-Stage Renal Disease Loss of renal function in patients with kidney stones may occur as a complication of obstruction by a stone lodged chronically in the ureter, a complication of the urological procedure to remove a stone, or from the disordered pathophysiology underlying some stones. Staghorn stones caused by uric acid nephrolithiasis, cystinuria, renal tubular acidosis (RTA), or chronic infection are well-recognized causes of decreased renal function. Additional risk factors for the development of chronic kidney disease in stone formers include a solitary kidney, ileal conduit, neurogenic bladder, and development of hydronephrosis ( 16 ). In the Olmsted County cohort, end-stage renal disease incidence in patients with recurrent symptomatic kidney stones was twice that of the general non-stone forming population even after adjusting for baseline hypertension, diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia, gout, obesity, and chronic kidney disease ( 17 ). Still, the absolute risk of ESRD from kidney stone disease was low. Stone Disease in Pregnancy Pregnancy-related mechanical and physiological changes alter risk factors for kidney stone formation, and management of acute nephrolithiasis in pregnancy is significantly more complicated than in non-pregnant women, at least in part due to imaging limitations and treatment restrictions ( 18 ). In an observational study, stones in pregnancy were associated with recurrent abortions, mild preeclampsia, chronic hypertension, gestational diabetes mellitus, and cesarean deliveries ( 19 ). Urinary tract infections and pyelonephritis and signs of ureteral obstruction including hydroureter and hydronephrosis were common, while premature rupture of membranes and preterm delivery were not more frequent. The newborns also were affected by perinatal complications including low birth weight, lower Apgar scores, and perinatal mortality. The majority of stones during pregnancy are calcium phosphate with a
