Nephrolithiasis
KEYWORDS: stone, calcium, pubmed, stones, kidney, urine, oxalate, urinary, risk, acid, uric, patients, uric acid, day, renal


frequent. The newborns also were affected by perinatal complications including low birth weight, lower Apgar scores, and perinatal mortality. The majority of stones during pregnancy are calcium phosphate with a lesser number of calcium oxalate, in contrast to non-pregnant women in whom calcium oxalate stones are most common ( 20 ). ASSOCIATION WITH OTHER CONDITIONS Traditionally, nephrolithiasis was thought of as a condition caused by poor diet and abnormal renal handling of electrolytes, with complications limited to the kidneys and the urinary tract. However, recent investigations suggest that kidney stones may in fact be a systemic disorder associated with serious disorders including osteoporosis and greater fracture risk ( 21 ), metabolic syndrome features including diabetes, hypertension, and dyslipidemia ( 22 ), and greater incidence of cardiovascular disease ( 23 ). CLINICAL MANIFESTATIONS Symptoms and Signs A classical episode of renal colic has a sudden onset, with fluctuation and intensification over 15 to 45 minutes. The pain then becomes steady and unbearable and often is accompanied by nausea and emesis. As the stone passes down the ureter toward the bladder, flank pain changes in a downward direction toward the groin. As the stone lodges at the ureterovesical junction, urinary frequency and dysuria appear. The pain may clear as the stone moves into the bladder or from the calyceal system into the ureter. Hematuria, generally microscopic but occasionally frank, frequently accompanies stone passage. The presence of bleeding alone does not predict a more severe outcome. Episodes of rapid onset of pain, bleeding, and then rapid clearing, often called ‘passing gravel’, is the result of passing a large number of crystals of calcium oxalate, uric acid, or cystine. “Non-classical” presentations of kidney stones include dull low back pain, gastrointestinal symptoms such as diarrhea, isolated microscopic hematuria, asymptomatic urinary obstruction with renal insufficiency, recurrent urinary tract obstruction, or incidental discovery on abdominal imaging. Likelihood of Passage The size, number, and metabolic composition of new stones strongly influence the natural history and complication rates. Smaller stone size and more distal location in the ureter at presentation predict greater likelihood of spontaneous stone passage. Furthermore, the clinical presentation can be in part classified by metabolic type ( Table 1 ). Spontaneous stone passage may occur with calcium oxalate, calcium phosphate, uric acid, and cystine stones. Rarely does a struvite stone or a staghorn stone of other composition (cystine, uric acid) pass spontaneously. Table 1. Clinical Manifestations
