Nephrolithiasis
KEYWORDS: stone, calcium, pubmed, stones, kidney, urine, oxalate, urinary, risk, acid, uric, patients, uric acid, day, renal


Formers ( 27 - 29 ) View in own window Serum: Basic metabolic panel, albumin, phosphate, magnesium, uric acid, PTH Urinalysis and urine culture 24-hour urine: Volume, creatinine, pH, calcium, citrate, oxalate, uric acid, sodium, potassium, magnesium, chloride, sulfate, phosphate, ammonium and cystine (if cystine stone is confirmed or suspected) Stone analysis URINE The initial 24-hour urine sample should be collected on the patient’s typical random diet. It is controversial whether one or two 24-hour urine collections should be obtained ( 30 - 34 ). At least one collection is needed, but two collections are preferred ( 27 - 29 ) . It is important to provide detailed instructions to patients to ensure an adequate collection and proper storage of urine sample. Patients start urine collection after their first morning void and end collection with the first morning void the next day. Storage of urine sample varies according to the instructions of the urine collection kits. Urine samples should be sent to a reliable lab for 24-hour urine stone risk profile analysis. 24-hour urine stone risk profile should be repeated at 8-16 weeks after dietary changes or if pharmacotherapy is initiated to monitor response to therapy and allow dose adjustment as needed ( 28 ). Once the therapeutic target is achieved, 24-hour urine stone risk profile is repeated annually ( 28 ). 24-hour urine stone risk profile typically provides information on 24-hour urine volume, creatinine, pH, calcium, citrate, oxalate, uric acid, sodium, potassium, magnesium, sulfate, phosphate, ammonium and cystine (if requested). In addition, relative supersaturations with respect to calcium oxalate, calcium phosphate and uric acid are reported. Relative supersaturations are calculated accounting for multiple factors including promotors and inhibitors associated with crystallization ( 35 ). Higher relative supersaturation is associated with higher likelihood of being stone formers and correlate with stone composition ( 36 , 37 ). STONE ANALYSIS Knowledge of stone composition may help direct the appropriate choice of urological procedures, evaluation of potential underlying metabolic abnormalities, and medical interventions to prevent stone recurrence ( 27 - 29 , 38 , 39 ). Current guidelines recommend obtaining stone analysis when feasible for all first-time stone formers ( 27 - 29 ). Stone composition may change in the same individual over time ( 40 , 41 ) Discordant stone compositions may also coexist in the same individual with bilateral kidney stones ( 42 , 43 ). Therefore, repeat stone analysis
