Nephrolithiasis
KEYWORDS: stone, calcium, pubmed, stones, kidney, urine, oxalate, urinary, risk, acid, uric, patients, uric acid, day, renal


over time ( 40 , 41 ) Discordant stone compositions may also coexist in the same individual with bilateral kidney stones ( 42 , 43 ). Therefore, repeat stone analysis should be obtained in recurrence under pharmacological treatment, early recurrence after urological intervention and late recurrence after a prolonged stone-free period ( 28 ). Multiple analytical techniques are available for stone analysis. The currently preferred methods are X-ray diffraction and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy ( 44 ). X-ray diffraction uses monochromic X-rays to create a unique diffraction pattern of the crystalline structure of the stone ( 45 ). Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy uses infrared radiation to create a unique energy absorption band pattern of the molecular structure of the stone ( 45 ). These patterns can then be matched to a reference database to determine the stone composition. Both X-ray diffraction and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy are very accurate in identifying pure stones; however, the majority of kidney stones in clinical practice are mixed stones ( 44 , 45 ). Both methods have limitations in identification of certain mixed stone compositions. X-ray diffraction cannot identify non-crystalline structures thus is prone to high rates of error in the detection of apatite component in mixed stones which is mostly pseudo-amorphous ( 44 ). It is also time-consuming and expensive which limit its broad use in clinical practice ( 45 ). Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy is quick and less expensive, but it cannot reliably detect small amounts of components in certain mixed stones (e.g. whewellite (hydrated calcium oxalate) in whewellite/uric acid stones and struvite in struvite/apatite stones) ( 44 - 47 ). The accuracy of stone analysis by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy depends on the quality of the reference database and trained personnel ( 46 , 47 ). While pure stones are reliably identified, there is variability in reporting the components of mixed stones in commercial laboratories which needs to be kept in mind when interpreting stone analysis results ( 47 , 48 ). Imaging A number of imaging modalities are available to evaluate stone number, size, and location in patients with nephrolithiasis ( Table 6 ). Abdominal computed tomography (CT) without contrast is the initial imaging test of choice for suspected stone disease due to its high sensitivity and specificity, along with its widespread availability and the rapidity of scan time. One downside to CT scan use is exposure to ionizing radiation,
