Nephrolithiasis
KEYWORDS: stone, calcium, pubmed, stones, kidney, urine, oxalate, urinary, risk, acid, uric, patients, uric acid, day, renal


disease due to its high sensitivity and specificity, along with its widespread availability and the rapidity of scan time. One downside to CT scan use is exposure to ionizing radiation, which may increase long-term cancer risk. Lower radiation doses are effective in the diagnosis of nephrolithiasis in most patients, leading to greater recent adoption of “low-dose” and “ultra-low dose” CT scan protocols for evaluation of stone disease ( 49 , 50 ). Use of ultrasonography as the initial test in patients with suspected nephrolithiasis in the emergency department (ED) may reduce cumulative radiation exposure without significantly increasing subsequent serious adverse events, pain scores, return visits to the ED, or hospitalizations ( 51 ). Abdominal X-rays (KUB) may be used as an alternative to CT scan and ultrasonography for follow-up of stone burden, although this modality misses radiolucent stones such as uric acid stones. Magnetic resonance imaging is capable of identifying kidney stones, but cost and limited availability make it a less attractive imaging modality for nephrolithiasis. Table 6. Comparison of Different Imaging Modalities in the Assessment of Nephrolithiasis View in own window Availability Cost Ionizing Radiation Other Advantages Other Drawbacks CT Scan Wide Moderate Highest -Detects extra-renal pathology -Useful in identifying uric acid stone composition -Major drawback is radiation Ultrasound Wide Moderate None -Portable US available -Use in children, pregnancy -Does not visualize ureteral stones -Large body habitus limits visualization X-ray Wide Low Low -Useful in follow-up of known radiopaque stones -Visualizes kidneys, ureters, and bladder -Misses radiolucent and/or small stones -Overlying bowel gas, and extra-renal calcification impact stone visualization MRI Limited High None -Use in children, pregnancy -Contrast risk in CKD patients -Cannot distinguish stone from blood clot IVP Limited Moderate High -Occasional use in preoperative planning -Contrast use SURGICAL MANAGEMENT An obstructive stone in the setting of urinary infection is a urological emergency and requires urgent decompression with a ureteral stent or nephrostomy tube ( 28 , 38 ). Patients should have urine and, if appropriate, blood cultures obtained and be started on broad spectrum intravenous antibiotics until culture results are available. These patients often require fluid resuscitation and monitoring in an intensive care setting. Definitive stone treatment is delayed until infection resolves. Patients who present with a ureteral stone up to 10mm can be offered a trial of passage if they have no signs or symptoms of urinary tract infection, their renal function is at their baseline,
