Nephrolithiasis
KEYWORDS: stone, calcium, pubmed, stones, kidney, urine, oxalate, urinary, risk, acid, uric, patients, uric acid, day, renal


ureteral stone up to 10mm can be offered a trial of passage if they have no signs or symptoms of urinary tract infection, their renal function is at their baseline, and their pain is well controlled. The likelihood of ureteral stone passage is influenced by stone size and location with smaller, more distal stones having the highest chance of passage ( 52 ). Furthermore, smaller stones tend to pass quicker than larger stones ( 53 ). For those patients attempting spontaneous passage, a trial of medical expulsive therapy with pain control and α-blocker for 4-6 weeks can be offered in uncomplicated cases ( i.e. in the absence of infection, uncontrolled pain, obstruction, renal insufficiency, or renal anatomy associated with low likelihood of spontaneous stone passage) ( 28 , 38 , 54 - 56 ) (56A, 56B). Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) including intravenous ketorolac are the treatment of choice for pain control. ( 57 ) Opioids are used as rescue therapy for pain refractory to NSAIDs. ( 58 ) In emergency room setting, IV lidocaine is a useful non-opioid option for pain control with close cardiac monitoring if there are no contraindications. ( 59 , 60 ) Alpha-blockers inhibit basal tone and decrease peristaltic frequency and amplitude in the lower ureters, decrease intraureteral pressure and increase fluid transport, thus they are proposed to be useful in stone expulsion ( 61 ). However, the effectiveness of α-blockers as medical expulsive therapy remains controversial. A recent meta-analysis showed the use of α-blockers is associated with increased stone clearance and decreased time to stone passage with little major adverse events compared to standard therapy without α-blockers, but the quality of evidence is low ( 62 ). The benefit of α-blockers was mainly demonstrated in individuals with ureteral stones with sizes 6-10mm. Little effect was found in stones measuring 5mm or smaller likely because these stones frequently pass spontaneously even without medical expulsive therapy ( 62 ). Potential side effects of α-blockers include orthostatic hypotension, dizziness, tachycardia, palpitations, headache, and abnormal ejaculation in males. In large clinical trials, these were not found to be more frequent in individuals treated with α-blockers than placebo with the exception of ejaculatory dysfunction in males ( 62 , 63 ). Outpatient referral to urology is indicated for stones larger than 10mm, stones smaller than 10mm that fail to pass with medical expulsive therapy, and stones causing obstruction at the
