Nephrolithiasis
KEYWORDS: stone, calcium, pubmed, stones, kidney, urine, oxalate, urinary, risk, acid, uric, patients, uric acid, day, renal


). Outpatient referral to urology is indicated for stones larger than 10mm, stones smaller than 10mm that fail to pass with medical expulsive therapy, and stones causing obstruction at the ureteropelvic junction, renal pelvis, or renal calyces especially in symptomatic patients and those at high risk for potential complications. Urological referral should also be considered for high-risk stone formers ( Table 4 ). Surgical intervention for stone treatment depends on symptoms, stone composition, size, and location ( Table 7 ) ( 28 , 38 , 64 ). Table 7. Surgical Management of Kidney Stones ( 28 , 38 , 64 ) View in own window Stone Surgical procedure Urological emergency: Obstructive stone with infected urine Obtain urinalysis, urine culture and start empiric antibiotics and IV fluid resuscitation May need ICU care Urgent decompression (ureteral stent or percutaneous nephrostomy tube) Delay definitive stone treatment until infection resolves Ureteral stones: Uncomplicated ureteral stone ≤ 10mm Trial of medical expulsive therapy with pain control (NSAIDS with narcotics if needed) and α-blocker for up to 4-6 weeks with reassessment of pain control, renal function and stone passage Proximal ureteral stone < 10mm SWL * URS # if cystine stone or uric acid stone Proximal ureteral stone > 10mm URS Mid ureteral stone of any size URS Distal ureteral stone of any size URS Renal stones: Asymptomatic renal stone < 15 mm Conservative therapy with surveillance of symptoms and imaging at 6 months and then annually for stone growth and new stone formation Symptomatic non-lower pole renal stone ≤ 20mm SWL, URS, or PCNL Symptomatic non-lower pole renal stone > 20mm PCNL † Symptomatic lower pole renal stone ≤ 10mm SWL, URS, or PCNL Symptomatic lower pole renal stone > 10mm URS or PCNL Staghorn stones PCNL Involved kidney with negligible function Consider nephrectomy if recurrent infection or pain # URS: ureteroscopy. † PCNL: percutaneous nephrolithotomy. * SWL: Shockwave lithotripsy. Calcium oxalate monohydrate, brushite and cystine stones are hard and resistant to fragmentation by SWL, thus alternative methods of stone removal are considered ( 28 ). SWL has a lower rate of complications and morbidity, but a lower stone free rate in a single procedure than URS. MEDICAL MANAGEMENT General Measures for All Patients with Kidney Stones Some risk factors ( e.g. low urine volume, hypocitraturia, high sodium intake, and high animal protein intake) are shared among different types of stones. General dietary measures (summarized
