Nephrolithiasis
KEYWORDS: stone, calcium, pubmed, stones, kidney, urine, oxalate, urinary, risk, acid, uric, patients, uric acid, day, renal


Kidney Stones Some risk factors ( e.g. low urine volume, hypocitraturia, high sodium intake, and high animal protein intake) are shared among different types of stones. General dietary measures (summarized in Table 8 ) targeting these risk factors can be recommended for stone prevention. These can be especially useful when stone analysis and/or 24-hour urine stone risk profile are not available. Results from a 24-hour urine collection ( Table 9 ) can further refine these recommendations. Low urine volume is a risk factor for nephrolithiasis. High urine volume leads to urinary dilution of lithogenic constituents and reduced crystallization of calcium oxalate, calcium phosphate, and uric acid ( 65 , 66 ). Several prospective studies have demonstrated high urine volume achieved with high fluid intake is associated with reduction in incident stones and recurrent stones ( 67 - 69 ). Fluid intake of 2.5 to 3 liters per day or achieving a urine volume of at least 2-2.5 liters per day is recommended ( 27 - 29 ). Regarding the types of fluid other than water, orange juice, lemonade, coffee (caffeinated and decaffeinated), tea and alcohol have been associated with reduced risk of stone formation although with some controversial results ( 5 , 68 , 70 - 72 ). Cola and grapefruit juice have been associated with increased risk of stone formation ( 70 ). A high dietary sodium intake is associated with increased risk of nephrolithiasis likely by causing increased urinary calcium and decreased urinary citrate ( 28 , 66 , 73 , 74 ). For every 100 mmol/day increase in dietary sodium intake, urinary calcium increases by an average of 40 mg/day in non-stone forming adults and by up to 80 mg/day in hypercalciuric stone formers ( 66 , 74 - 76 ). A low sodium diet reduced urinary calcium and recurrent stones in hypercalciuric stone formers ( 76 , 77 ). Stone formers are therefore recommended to limit their dietary sodium intake to less than 2300 mg/day (or 100 mmol/day) which is equivalent to 5.9 grams of salt (sodium chloride) ( 27 - 29 ). A high dietary animal protein intake (meat, fish and poultry) is a risk factor for nephrolithiasis in general ( 69 , 78 ). It is associated with increased urinary calcium, uric acid, phosphate, and reduced urinary citrate and pH ( 79 ). On average, urinary calcium increases by 1 mg/day for every 1
