Nephrolithiasis
KEYWORDS: stone, calcium, pubmed, stones, kidney, urine, oxalate, urinary, risk, acid, uric, patients, uric acid, day, renal


It is associated with increased urinary calcium, uric acid, phosphate, and reduced urinary citrate and pH ( 79 ). On average, urinary calcium increases by 1 mg/day for every 1 g/day increase in dietary animal protein intake ( 80 , 81 ). In a randomized clinical trial of recurrent calcium oxalate stone formers, a diet with limited animal protein (52 g/day) and sodium (50 mmol/day) but normal calcium (1,200 mg/day) reduced stone recurrence by about 50% at 5 years when compared to a low-calcium diet (400mg mg/day) in hypercalciuric stone formers ( 77 ). It is recommended to limit dietary animal protein intake to 0.8 to 1.0 g/kg weight per day ( 28 , 82 ). Urinary calcium excretion increases with increased dietary calcium intake which can be more pronounced in individuals with hyperabsorptive idiopathic hypercalciuria ( 66 , 83 ). However, a diet restrictive in calcium has not been demonstrated to prevent nephrolithiasis. On the contrary, several studies showed a lower dietary calcium intake is associated with a higher risk of both incident and recurrent stones than a higher dietary calcium intake in men and women ( 69 , 73 , 77 , 84 ). A restricted calcium diet increases enteric absorption of oxalate and urinary oxalate which increases supersaturation of calcium oxalate ( 85 , 86 ). In addition, a low calcium diet may lead to negative calcium balance and bone loss. Therefore, a normal calcium diet with 1,000-1,200 mg/day is recommended as a dietary measure for stone prevention ( 27 - 29 ). Dietary sources of calcium are preferred. However, if supplemental calcium is needed, it is best taken in divided doses with meals to reduce enteric absorption of oxalate ( 27 - 29 ). A diet rich in fruits and vegetables is associated with a decreased risk of incident kidney stones ( 87 ) and current guidelines on medical management of nephrolithiasis also recommend a diet rich in fruits and vegetables for prevention of stone recurrence ( 27 - 29 ). In normal individuals, elimination of dietary fruits and vegetables decreased urinary potassium, magnesium, citrate and oxalate, and increased urinary calcium, ammonium and relative supersaturation of calcium oxalate and calcium phosphate ( 88 ). In hypocitraturic stone formers, introduction of fruits and vegetables in the diet increased urinary potassium, magnesium, citrate, volume and pH, and decreased relative supersaturation of calcium oxalate and uric acid ( 88
