Nephrolithiasis
KEYWORDS: stone, calcium, pubmed, stones, kidney, urine, oxalate, urinary, risk, acid, uric, patients, uric acid, day, renal


Potassium loss ( e.g. diarrhea) Magnesium > 80 mg/day --- Low urine magnesium: Low magnesium intake Malabsorption Cystine < 40 mg/day Cystine stone Cystinuria Calcium Stones Approximately 80% of kidney stones are calcium stones (calcium oxalate and/or calcium phosphate) ( 44 ). The initiating events of stone formation are controversial ( 90 - 94 ), but there are three proposed pathways of stone formation: 1) Randall’s plaque (interstitial calcium phosphate deposit at the renal papilla) grows and erodes the urothelium and becomes a nidus for crystal growth in urine supersaturated with respect to calcium oxalate; 2) Ductal plug formed by fixed particle mechanism in which a crystal nidus is attached to the apical epithelium of the collecting duct and allows crystal growth in urine supersaturated with respect to the constituents of the stone; 3) Ductal plug formed by free particle mechanism in which a crystal nidus forms through homogenous nucleation in the lumen of the nephron in the supersaturated environment ( 92 ). Randall’s plaque is a prominent feature in idiopathic calcium oxalate stone formers and patients with primary hyperparathyroidism; although plugging is also observed ( 93 , 94 ). Ductal plugs formed by fixed particle mechanism are seen in brushite stone formers and patients with dRTA and primary hyperparathyroidism. Ductal plug formed by free particle mechanism is seen in cystinuric stone formers and intestinal bypass patients ( 92 ). Calcium stones can be idiopathic or associated with systemic diseases (see Table 10 ) ( 89 , 95 ). Idiopathic calcium stones formers may exhibit various urinary risk factors for calcium oxalate and calcium phosphate stones ( Table 11 ) ( 89 ). Table 10. Systemic Conditions Associated with Calcium Stones ( 89 , 95 ) View in own window Systemic diseases: Primary hyperparathyroidism Sarcoidosis Bone diseases ( e.g. fractures, multiple myeloma) Immobilization Hyperthyroidism Distal renal tubular acidosis Polycystic kidney disease Bowel disease (e.g. inflammatory bowel disease, chronic pancreatitis, chronic diarrhea) Bowel resection (e.g. colon resection, ileostomy, small bowel resection, Roux-en-Y gastric bypass) Cystic fibrosis Primary hyperoxaluria Gout Anatomical abnormalities that impair urine flow ( e.g. medullary sponge kidney, ureteral stricture, horseshoe kidney, etc. ) Medications Carbonic anhydrase inhibitor ( e.g. topiramate, acetazolamide, zonisamide) Calcium and vitamin D supplements Vitamin C supplement Loop diuretics Uricosuric agents ( e.g . probenecid, benzbromarone) Table 11. Risk Factors for Calcium Stones ( 89 ) View in own window Risk factors for calcium oxalate
