Nephrolithiasis
KEYWORDS: stone, calcium, pubmed, stones, kidney, urine, oxalate, urinary, risk, acid, uric, patients, uric acid, day, renal


to be elucidated. Hypercalciuric stone formers were found to have lower bone mineral density (BMD) than non-stone formers even in those with absorptive hypercalciuria ( 21 , 113 ). The decreased BMD is more pronounced in trabecular bone than cortical bone ( 21 , 113 ). Nephrolithiasis was associated with an increased risk of vertebral fractures in both men and women in a population-based retrospective cohort study ( 114 ), and with an increased risk of prevalent vertebral and wrist fractures in men in a cross-sectional study in NHANES III ( 115 ). Prior bone histomorphometry studies demonstrated increased bone resorption in fasting hypercalciuria and decreased bone formation in absorptive hypercalciuria ( 113 ). The pathophysiology underlying bone loss in idiopathic hypercalciuria is not exactly clear; however, several risk factors have been associated with bone loss in this population. A restricted calcium diet sometimes used by patients or physicians to reduce urine calcium may generate negative calcium balance leading to increased bone resorption and bone loss without reducing risk of kidney stones ( 77 , 116 , 117 ). High dietary salt and protein intake increase urinary calcium excretion and create a subtle metabolic acidosis both of which may contribute to bone loss ( 21 , 75 , 113 , 118 ). Inflammatory cytokines such as IL1, IL6, TNF-α and GM-CSF have been associated with hypercalciuria and bone loss by increased bone resorption ( 113 ). Idiopathic hypercalciuric stone formers were also found to have increased bone expression of RANKL and decreased expression of TGF-β which may be the mediators for increased bone resorption and decreased bone formation and mineralization, respectively ( 119 ). High 1,25(OH) 2 D and/or increased expression of VDR found in idiopathic hypercalciuria may also increase bone resorption and decrease bone formation ( 21 ). Hypocitraturia Urinary citrate is an endogenous inhibitor of calcium stone formation. It forms a more soluble calcium citrate complex than calcium oxalate and calcium phosphate ( 89 , 96 ). It reduces urinary supersaturation with respect to calcium oxalate and calcium phosphate ( 89 , 96 ). Hypocitraturia is generally defined as urine citrate less than 320 mg/day and is a well-described reversible risk factor that is present in 20-60% of calcium stone formers ( 89 , 96 ). Extracellular and intracellular pH affects renal citrate excretion. Systemic acidosis increases urinary citrate reabsorption and leads to hypocitraturia ( 120 ). Intracellular
