Nephrolithiasis
KEYWORDS: stone, calcium, pubmed, stones, kidney, urine, oxalate, urinary, risk, acid, uric, patients, uric acid, day, renal


calcium stone formers ( 89 , 96 ). Extracellular and intracellular pH affects renal citrate excretion. Systemic acidosis increases urinary citrate reabsorption and leads to hypocitraturia ( 120 ). Intracellular acidosis increases intracellular citrate metabolism in the cytosol and mitochondrial via the TCA cycle ( 120 ). Thus, hypocitraturia occurs mainly in conditions with extracellular or intracellular acidosis ( 89 ). Table 13 summarizes common causes of hypocitraturia ( 89 , 96 , 120 ). Table 13. Causes of Hypocitraturia ( 89 , 96 , 120 ) View in own window Systemic diseases: Complete dRTA (hypocitraturia, frank metabolic acidosis, hypokalemia, hypercalciuria, high urine pH) Incomplete dRTA (hypocitraturia without frank metabolic acidosis, high urine pH) Hypokalemia Chronic diarrhea Chronic kidney disease Primary hyperaldosteronism Idiopathic hypocitraturia Dietary: High animal protein intake High sodium intake Low fruit / vegetable intake Medications: Carbonic anhydrase inhibitor (e.g. topiramate, acetazolamide, zonisamide) Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors Angiotensin II receptor blockers Diuretic-induced hypokalemia Hyperoxaluria High urinary oxalate increases urinary supersaturation with respect to calcium oxalate ( 96 ). Hyperoxaluria is generally defined as urinary oxalate greater than 45 mg/day (0.5 mmol/day) ( 89 ). It is encountered in 8-50% of calcium stone formers ( 121 ). Etiologies of hyperoxaluria can be divided into three categories: 1) increased endogenous oxalate production due to inborn error of metabolism, 2) increased intake of foods rich in oxalate or its precursors ( Table 2 ) or increased intestinal bioavailability of oxalate, and 3) increased intestinal oxalate absorption ( 89 , 121 ). Table 14 summarizes causes of hyperoxaluria. Primary hyperoxalurias (PH) are a group of rare autosomal recessive disorders involving overproduction of oxalate which results in markedly increased urinary oxalate excretion. There are three genetic forms: PH1 due to mutations in AGXT (encodes for a pyridoxal-5’-phosphate-dependent hepatic peroxisomal alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase, AGT), PH2 due to mutations in GRHPR (encodes for glyoxylate reductase and hydroxypyruvate reductase, GRHPR) and PH3 due to mutations in HOGA1 (encodes for hepatic mitochondrial 4-hydroxy-2-oxoglutarate aldolase, HOGA) ( 122 , 123 ). Deficiency in AGT in PH1 results in decreased conversion of glyoxylate to glycine. The accumulated glyoxylate is in turn converted to oxalate by lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) leading to increased production of oxalate ( 123 ). Deficiency in GRHPR in PH2 results in decreased conversion of glyoxylate and hydroxypyruvate to glycolate and D-glycerate, respectively. The accumulated glyoxylate and hydroxypyruvate are converted to oxalate and L-glycerate respectively by LDH (
