Nephrolithiasis
KEYWORDS: stone, calcium, pubmed, stones, kidney, urine, oxalate, urinary, risk, acid, uric, patients, uric acid, day, renal


in PH2 results in decreased conversion of glyoxylate and hydroxypyruvate to glycolate and D-glycerate, respectively. The accumulated glyoxylate and hydroxypyruvate are converted to oxalate and L-glycerate respectively by LDH ( 123 ). Mutations in HOGA1 in PH3 result in decreased enzymatic activity of HOGA which converts 4-hydroxy-2-oxoglutarate (HOG) to pyruvate and glyoxylate. This results in accumulation of HOG which inhibits mitochondrial GRHPR (which is the deficient enzyme in PH2) activity, thus increasing oxalate production ( 122 , 124 ). Primary hyperoxalurias should be suspected if urinary oxalate is greater than 90 mg/day (1 mmol/day) ( 125 ). Measurement of other urinary metabolites including glyoxylate and L-glycerate can be helpful, but genetic testing is required for definitive diagnosis of primary hyperoxaluria ( 123 ). Dietary oxalate is estimated to range between 50 and 1,000 mg/day ( 121 ). Oxalate is absorbed mainly in the small intestine and to a lesser extent in the colon ( 121 ). Intestinal absorption of oxalate varies between 10% and 72% ( 121 ). On a normal calcium diet (1,000 mg/day calcium), urinary oxalate increases by 2.7 mg/day with every 100 mg/day increase in dietary oxalate between 50mg to 750mg/day ( 126 ). Table 2 provides a list of foods rich in oxalate and some alternative options with low oxalate content ( 24 ). Although there is considerable variation in the reported oxalate content in foods among the available online sources, the simplest strategy is to avoid the foods with high oxalate content ( 127 ). Attention should be paid to portion size even with foods with low to moderate oxalate contents. Excessive intake of vitamin C more than 1,000 mg/day is associated with increased urine oxalate because vitamin C is metabolized into oxalate in the body ( 128 , 129 ). A restricted calcium diet increases enteric oxalate availability for absorption and results in increased urinary oxalate ( 85 , 86 ). Patients with chronic diarrhea, pancreatic insufficiency, inflammatory bowel diseases, or small bowel resections may have malabsorption of bile acids and/or fatty acids which can complex with luminal calcium in the intestine, resulting in increased bioavailability of oxalate to be absorbed and subsequently excreted in the urine ( 89 , 96 ). This is also termed enteric hyperoxaluria. Increased bioavailability of luminal oxalate can also result from decreased colonization by Oxalobacter formigenes which is a Gram-negative obligate anaerobe that utilizes oxalate as the sole
