Nephrolithiasis
KEYWORDS: stone, calcium, pubmed, stones, kidney, urine, oxalate, urinary, risk, acid, uric, patients, uric acid, day, renal


also termed enteric hyperoxaluria. Increased bioavailability of luminal oxalate can also result from decreased colonization by Oxalobacter formigenes which is a Gram-negative obligate anaerobe that utilizes oxalate as the sole energy source. O. formigenes also increases secretion of endogenous oxalate from plasma to the gut lumen which results in decreased urinary oxalate ( 126 ). Colonization by O. formigenes is associated with decreased bioavailability of intestinal oxalate for absorption, decreased urinary oxalate, and reduced risk of calcium oxalate stones ( 130 , 131 ). Use of certain antibiotics to which O. formigenes are sensitive (macrolides, tetracyclines, chloramphenicol, rifampin and metronidazole) within the past 5 years is associated with a reduction in colonization when compared to non-users ( 132 ), and has been separately associated with greater incidence of stone disease ( 133 ). Furthermore, patients with cystic fibrosis or inflammatory bowel disease who receive frequent antibiotic courses were found to have lower prevalence of colonization by O. formigenes , which may contribute to their higher oxalate excretion and increased kidney stone formation ( 134 , 135 ). Table 14. Causes of Hyperoxaluria View in own window Primary hyperoxaluria Primary hyperoxaluria type 1 (mutations in AGXT gene) Primary hyperoxaluria type 2 (mutations in GRHPR gene) Primary hyperoxaluria type 3 (mutations in HOGA1 gene) Secondary hyperoxaluria High intake of oxalate rich foods (See Table 2 ) Vitamin C intake > 1,000 mg/day Low calcium intake Pancreatic insufficiency Inflammatory bowel disease (Crohn’s disease) Small bowel surgeries Cystic fibrosis Decreased colonization by Oxalobacter formigenes Elevated Urine pH Urine pH higher than 6.7 is a risk factor for calcium phosphate stones. The pKa for monohydrogen phosphate (HPO4 2- ) is ~ 6.7. At a pH higher than the pKa, there is an increased abundance of HPO4 2- which complexes with divalent cation calcium (Ca 2+ ) to form brushite (CaHPO 4 .2H 2 O) and eventually to hydroxyapatite [Ca 10 (PO 4 ) 6 (OH) 2 ] ( 96 ). Table 15 summarizes potential causes of high urine pH. Table 15. Causes of High Urine pH ( 89 , 96 ) View in own window Distal renal tubular acidosis (RTA) Urinary tract infections Primary hyperparathyroidism Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors Alkali therapy Hyperuricosuria Hyperuricosuria is defined as urinary uric acid greater than 800 mg/day in men and 750 mg/day in women ( 136 ). It is found in 40% of calcium stone formers and associated with increased
