Nephrolithiasis
KEYWORDS: stone, calcium, pubmed, stones, kidney, urine, oxalate, urinary, risk, acid, uric, patients, uric acid, day, renal


in increased sodium and water reabsorption in the renal proximal tubule, resulting in greater proximal calcium reabsorption by passive transport ( 141 ), and 2) increased distal tubular calcium absorption by increased abundance of transport proteins TRVP5 and calbindins ( 142 , 143 ). The hypocalciuric dose-response to HCTZ has been studied in six healthy adults which demonstrated hypocalciuric effect at 12.5mg, 25mg, and 50mg daily; however, it was subtherapeutic for 12.5mg and 25mg daily when compared to 50mg daily ( 144 ). Several older randomized controlled trials on thiazide diuretics with an average follow up of ~ 3 years showed reduction in the risk of recurrent stones ( 145 ). A more recent placebo-controlled randomized trial of suggested that once-daily hydrochlorothiazide lacked efficacy to prevent stone recurrence ( 145a ). The null finding in this trial may have due to lower decrease in urine calcium excretion than that seen in other studies which used twice daily hydrochlorothiazide dosing, and/or due to a reduction in urine citrate excretion observed in the hydrochlorothiazide-treated participants ( 145b ). Ultimately, thiazide diuretics remain a cornerstone of the treatment of calcium nephrolithiasis ( 145c ). Trials have shown the efficacy of thiazides at reducing stone recurrence in both hypercalciuric and normocalciuric stone formers, underscoring the lack of threshold effect of urinary calcium in predicting stone risk. Rather, the risk of stone formation increases progressively with increasing urinary calcium excretion even within the “normal range” ( 97 ). It also supports the empiric use of thiazide diuretics in recurrent calcium stone formers, even those with normocalciuria ( 27 , 146 ). The doses used in these trials were HCTZ 25mg BID, 50mg and 100mg daily, indapamide 2.5mg daily, and chlorthalidone 25mg and 50mg daily ( 145 ). A recent retrospective cohort study suggests lower doses of thiazide diuretics (HCTZ or chlorthalidone ≤ 12.5 mg daily or indapamide ≤ 1.25 mg daily) appear to have a similar protective effect against stone formation as higher doses in older adults ( 147 ). Thiazide diuretics have also been shown to improve bone health. They reduce urinary calcium excretion resulting in positive calcium balance and reduced PTH which may reduce bone turnover ( 96 ). They have also been shown to stimulate osteoblast differentiation and function and inhibit osteoclast differentiation in vitro ( 21 , 115 , 148 ) . HCTZ 50mg daily improved cortical BMD in healthy postmenopausal
