Nephrolithiasis
KEYWORDS: stone, calcium, pubmed, stones, kidney, urine, oxalate, urinary, risk, acid, uric, patients, uric acid, day, renal


shown to stimulate osteoblast differentiation and function and inhibit osteoclast differentiation in vitro ( 21 , 115 , 148 ) . HCTZ 50mg daily improved cortical BMD in healthy postmenopausal women without baseline hypercalciuria ( 149 , 150 ). In postmenopausal women with osteoporosis and hypercalciuria, addition of indapamide 2.5mg daily to alendronate 70mg weekly resulted in a reduction in urinary calcium and an additional increase in BMD at the lumbar spine over 12 months compared to alendronate single therapy ( 151 ). A meta-analysis of five observational cohort studies showed thiazide diuretics use was associated with a reduction in risk of hip fractures ( 152 ). Although there is no randomized placebo-controlled trial available, a secondary analysis of the Antihypertensive and Lipid-Lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack Trial (ALLHAT) showed a reduction in hip and pelvic fracture risk in patients on chlorthalidone 12.5mg to 25mg daily compared to those on lisinopril or amlodipine ( 153 ). Thiazide diuretics use may be associated with hypokalemia which may induce hypocitraturia, thus potassium supplements are often needed. Potassium citrate is superior to potassium chloride given its ability to increase urinary citrate and pH and to further lower urine calcium excretion ( 154 ). Combination of thiazide diuretics with a potassium sparing diuretic ( e.g. amiloride) can also be considered. Amiloride can be tried if the patient cannot take a thiazide type diuretic. In summary, thiazide diuretics are recommended to patients with recurrent calcium stones with and without hypercalciuria ( 27 ). Alkali therapy: Potassium citrate treatment increases urine pH and urine citrate, decreases urine calcium, and decreases urinary supersaturation with respect to calcium oxalate ( 155 ). Several placebo-controlled randomized trials demonstrated potassium citrate and potassium magnesium citrate treatment reduced recurrent stone events in calcium stone formers with and without hypocitraturia ( 156 - 158 ). Potassium citrate treatment may also prevent bone loss. Potassium citrate treatment increased BMD at the spine in idiopathic calcium stone formers ( 159 ) and increased BMD at the spine, femoral neck, and total hip in healthy elderly men and postmenopausal women without osteoporosis ( 160 ). The proposed mechanisms by which potassium citrate improves BMD include systemic alkalization, increased osteoblastic activity, and reduced osteoclastic activity demonstrated by bone turnover markers, and positive calcium balance created by reduced urinary calcium excretion ( 21 , 160 , 161 ). Currently, potassium citrate therapy is recommended for patients
