Nephrolithiasis
KEYWORDS: stone, calcium, pubmed, stones, kidney, urine, oxalate, urinary, risk, acid, uric, patients, uric acid, day, renal


demonstrated by bone turnover markers, and positive calcium balance created by reduced urinary calcium excretion ( 21 , 160 , 161 ). Currently, potassium citrate therapy is recommended for patients with recurrent calcium stones with and without hypocitraturia ( 27 ). Xanthine oxidase inhibitors: Allopurinol and Febuxostat: There is only one published randomized placebo-controlled trial on allopurinol in prevention of calcium nephrolithiasis. In this study, calcium oxalate stone formers with hyperuricosuria and normocalciuria treated with allopurinol 100mg TID had a lower rate of stone events than those treated with placebo over 24 months ( 162 ). Allopurinol is recommended for patients with recurrent calcium oxalate stones with hyperuricosuria and normocalciuria ( 27 ). Febuxostat was studied in a randomized controlled trial comparing febuxostat 80mg daily with allopurinol 300mg daily or placebo on the effect of stone prevention in calcium stone formers (calcium oxalate and/or calcium phosphate) with hyperuricosuria and normocalciuria over 6 months ( 163 ). Febuxostat led to a greater reduction in urinary uric acid than allopurinol or placebo, but percent change in stone size was similar to allopurinol or placebo. This study was not powered to detect difference in stone events in the three groups. Currently, there is insufficient evidence to support the routine use of febuxostat for stone prevention in hyperuricosuric calcium stone patients, except in those who may be allopurinol-intolerant ( 29 ). Pyridoxine: Pyridoxine (vitamin B6) supplementation is helpful in primary hyperoxaluria type 1 (PH1) with specific mutations, namely Gly170Arg, Phe152Ile and Ile244Thr. A trial of pyridoxine for 3 months with a starting dose of 5 mg/kg body weight/day titrated to a maximum of 20 mg/kg body weight/day can be attempted in patients with suspected primary hyperoxaluria. Response to therapy is defined as more than 30% reduction in urinary oxalate from baseline ( 123 ). RNA interference therapeutics: In patients with PH1, RNA interference (RNAi) therapeutics (lumasiran and nedosiran) that target specific hepatic enzymes to reduce liver overproduction of oxalate have been shown to significantly reduce urinary oxalate ( 163a , 163b ). Uric Acid Stones Uric acid stones generally represent around 10% of all stones analyzed, although their prevalence has markedly increased in recent years, in parallel with the diabetes and obesity epidemics ( 164 , 165 ). In a series of 2,464 calculi, the proportion of uric acid stones was 35.7% in patients with type 2 diabetes and 11.3% in patients without type
