Nephrolithiasis
KEYWORDS: stone, calcium, pubmed, stones, kidney, urine, oxalate, urinary, risk, acid, uric, patients, uric acid, day, renal


164 , 165 ). In a series of 2,464 calculi, the proportion of uric acid stones was 35.7% in patients with type 2 diabetes and 11.3% in patients without type 2 diabetes ( 166 ). Reciprocally, the proportion of patients with type 2 diabetes was significantly higher among uric acid than among calcium stone formers (27.8 versus 6.9%) ( 166 ). In fact, several epidemiological and metabolic studies have reported an association of uric acid stone disease with various features of the metabolic syndrome including obesity, type 2 diabetes, hypertension, dyslipidemia, hyperglycemia, hepatic steatosis, and greater visceral adiposity ( 167 ). PATHOGENESIS AND RISK FACTORS The three main factors implicated in the development of uric acid nephrolithiasis are low urine pH, hyperuricosuria, and low urine volume ( Table 17 ) ( 168 ). Of these, low urine pH is the primary determinant of uric acid nephrolithiasis, as acidic urine favors the protonation of urate, forming relatively insoluble uric acid which precipitates in this overly acidic urinary environment. In fact, a decline in urine pH from 6.0 to 5.0 increases urinary uric acid concentration six-fold, whereas states of increased urate production typically increase urate excretion two-fold. Therefore, uric acid stone formation is more determined by pH than by urine volume or urine uric acid concentrations. Low urine pH may result from excessive intake of animal proteins ( 81 ), gastrointestinal alkali loss (from chronic diarrhea or laxative abuse), or may be idiopathic as frequently observed in patients with obesity, type 2 diabetes, and/or the metabolic syndrome ( 164 , 168 ). Human metabolic studies have identified greater acid excretion and reduced urinary buffering by ammonia as the two culprits of aciduria in uric acid nephrolithiasis ( 169 ). Hyperuricosuria is less frequently encountered in patients with uric acid nephrolithiasis and may result from inherited and/or acquired conditions ( Tables 16 and 17 ). Finally, low urine volume due to extra-renal fluid loss contributes to increased urinary saturation with respect to uric acid, leading to stone formation. Table 17. Risk Factors and Etiological Conditions Associated with Uric Acid Nephrolithiasis View in own window Urinary Risk Factor Type of Abnormality Etiological conditions Low urine pH Inherited Conditions Inherited uric acid lithiasis (unknown genetic abnormality) Acquired Conditions Metabolic syndrome, obesity, diabetes, CKD, high animal protein intake, gastrointestinal alkali loss Medications Laxatives Hyperuricosuria Inherited Conditions Disorders of uric acid metabolism (e.g. Lesch-Nyhan); Disorders of uric
