Nephrolithiasis
KEYWORDS: stone, calcium, pubmed, stones, kidney, urine, oxalate, urinary, risk, acid, uric, patients, uric acid, day, renal


abnormality) Acquired Conditions Metabolic syndrome, obesity, diabetes, CKD, high animal protein intake, gastrointestinal alkali loss Medications Laxatives Hyperuricosuria Inherited Conditions Disorders of uric acid metabolism (e.g. Lesch-Nyhan); Disorders of uric acid excretion (e.g. renal hypouricemia); Glycogen storage disorder type 1A (glucose-6-phosphatase deficiency) Acquired Conditions Gout, myeloproliferative disorders, hemolytic disorders, high purine intake Medications Uricosuric agents: Losartan, Probenecid, Benzbromarone Low urine volume Acquired Conditions Chronic diarrhea, excessive perspiration, low fluid intake Medications Laxatives MANAGEMENT Since uric acid stone formation is more determined by urine pH than by urine volume or urine uric acid concentrations, the cornerstone of therapy is urinary alkalinization. Lifestyle Changes Dietary restriction of animal protein intake is helpful in decreasing ingestion of proton sources, which reduces aciduria and aids with urinary alkalinization. At the same time, animal protein restriction also lowers uric acid excretion through a reduction in purine intake. Conversely, greater ingestion of alkali-rich fruits and vegetables aids in raising urine pH. Finally, higher fluid intake in general aids in raising urine volume, while intake of certain fruit juices such as orange juice can increase urine pH (along with the concomitant rise in urine volume). Still, one should be cautious about the sugar load imparted by fruit juices in uric acid stone formers with pre-diabetes or frank diabetes. Pharmacological Therapy Medical dissolution therapy of uric acid stones with alkali therapy (potassium citrate, to raise 24-hour urine pH to 6.0 to 6.5) is the cornerstone of uric acid management. Alkali therapy is well-tolerated by most uric acid stone formers and effectively dissolves stones, potentially avoiding the morbidity of urological interventions ( 170 , 171 ). In patients who cannot tolerate potassium citrate, alternative alkali regimens include sodium bicarbonate and potassium bicarbonate. Occasionally, xanthine oxidase inhibitors (allopurinol or febuxostat) are added to potassium citrate in patients with hyperuricosuria whose uric acid stones recur despite alkali therapy. A recent study has suggested that the thiazolidinedione pioglitazone may aid in raising urine pH in uric acid stone formers ( 172 ), although the risk/benefit ratio of this medication needs to be considered. Cystine Stones PATHOGENESIS AND RISK FACTORS Cystine represent around 1-2% of stones in adult patients, but account for 5-8% of stones in pediatric patients. Cystine stones result from inactivating mutations in genes that encode renal tubular transporters that reabsorb the amino acid cysteine ( 173 ). The complexation of two molecules of the dibasic amino acid cysteine results in
