Nephrolithiasis
KEYWORDS: stone, calcium, pubmed, stones, kidney, urine, oxalate, urinary, risk, acid, uric, patients, uric acid, day, renal


mutations in genes that encode renal tubular transporters that reabsorb the amino acid cysteine ( 173 ). The complexation of two molecules of the dibasic amino acid cysteine results in the formation of cystine which is relatively insoluble. Cystine normally appears in urine in small amounts that are insufficient to cause supersaturation, crystalluria, or stone formation. Due to defects in renal cysteine reabsorption, patients with cystinuria exhibit greater than a 10-fold increase in urine cystine excretion (as well as greater excretion of the other dibasic amino acids lysine, ornithine, and arginine). As a result, the solubility limit of cystine in the urine (250 mg/L) is exceeded. Homozygous inheritance results in more severe phenotype, whereas heterozygous inheritance is associated with variable increases in amino acid excretion and an intermediate increase in cystinuria. Cystine stones form in the upper urinary tract as early as the first decade of life, and tend to be large, staghorn, bilateral, and highly recurrent ( 173 ). Stone formation may manifest as obstruction, infection, hematuria, and renal failure. Cystine stones are visible on standard abdominal radiographs because of the relative density of the sulfur constituent of cysteine ( Table 6 ). MANAGEMENT The goal of therapy in cystinuria is to reduce cystine excretion and increase urinary cystine solubility ( 173 , 174 ). This is accomplished using a combination of lifestyle changes and pharmacological interventions. Lifestyle Changes Large urine volumes of 3-4 liters per day may be effective at reducing cystine concentration and reducing stone recurrence in some patients, although this is difficult to institute in children and even adult patients. Dietary protein restriction to around 1 g protein/kg body weight/day reduces cysteine intake, and may cause small decreases in cystine synthesis ( 175 ), although this should be avoided in growing children and adolescents. A low sodium intake can also contribute to reduced cystine excretion ( 176 ). Pharmacological Therapy When fluid and dietary therapy fail, then pharmacologic therapy may be effective. Alkaline pH in the 7.0-7.5 range will reduce cystine solubility and can be achieved by the addition of alkali therapy such as potassium citrate ( 177 ). Tiopronin (Thiola®) and D-penicillamine reduce cystine formation in urine by preventing cysteine-cysteine complexation and the formation of more soluble thiol-cysteine disulfides that are more readily excreted in the urine. Both agents however have potentially serious side effects (proteinuria, abnormal LFTs, others) and therefore they are not used
