Nephrolithiasis
KEYWORDS: stone, calcium, pubmed, stones, kidney, urine, oxalate, urinary, risk, acid, uric, patients, uric acid, day, renal


more soluble thiol-cysteine disulfides that are more readily excreted in the urine. Both agents however have potentially serious side effects (proteinuria, abnormal LFTs, others) and therefore they are not used as first-line treatment ( 174 ). Struvite (Infection) Stones PATHOGENESIS AND RISK FACTORS Struvite (magnesium ammonium phosphate) stones form only in the presence of bacteria that produce urease. Common urease-producing bacteria that may populate the urinary tract are proteus, klebsiella, pseudomonas, and enterococci. Urease-mediated splitting of urea and the generation of ammonium results in an alkaline urine. Urine pH above 7.0 normally is associated with very low urine ammonium levels of less than 10 mEq/day. However, urine ammonium excretion exceeding 30 mEq/day along with 24-hour urine pH > 7.0 virtually make the diagnosis of struvite stones. Other constituents of the stone may include calcium carbonate and brushite (calcium phosphate), which form crystals in the very alkaline urine. Patients who form struvite stones do not pass them spontaneously, but rather are at high risk for bleeding, obstruction, and decreased renal function. Some infection stones begin as calcium oxalate stones that become infected with a urease-producing bacterium. Spread of infection to the contralateral kidney may occur. MANAGEMENT Because untreated staghorn calculi will require nephrectomy in 50% of patients, definitive treatment is indicated ( 178 ). Growth of infection stones and their progressive damage to kidney tissue may be limited by shockwave lithotripsy and percutaneous nephrolithotomy (PCNL); however definitive treatment of struvite stones is surgical removal. Extended antibiotic therapy has proven ineffective in eradicating the infection and does not substitute for complete removal of even the smallest particulate of the stone ( 178 ). Management with PCNL followed by careful follow-up and medical management minimizes stone recurrence and maintains kidney function in the majority of patients ( 179 ). Larger stone burden pre-operatively, residual stones after surgery, and presence of medical comorbidities are independent risk factors for stone recurrence or residual stone-related events ( 179 ). Acetohydroxamic acid inhibits urease produced by the bacteria and has been shown to be effective in eradicating chronic infection of struvite stones ( 180 ). Use of the drug has been limited, however, as it is associated with potentially serious side effects such as hemolytic anemia and venous thromboembolic disease. CONCLUSIONS In conclusion, urinary stones are common, morbid, and highly recurrent. The pathophysiology of kidney stone formation is diverse and includes a combination of genetic and environmental
