Osborn wave
KEYWORDS: osborn, wave, osborn waves, waves, osborn wave, ventricular, hypothermia, degrees, leads, ventricular fibrillation, angina, shown, variety, fibrillation, temperature


Synonyms and keywords: camel-hump sign; late delta wave; An Osborn J wave hathook junction; hypothermic wave; J point wave; K wave; H wave; current of injury; Osborne wave Overview Osborn waves (also known as ) are usually observed on the electrocardiogram of people suffering from hypothermia, though they may also occur in people with high blood levels of calcium (hypercalcemia), brain injury, subarachnoid hemorrhage, damage to sympathetic nerves in the neck, and cardiopulmonary arrest from over sedation, vasospastic angina, or ventricular fibrillation. [1] [2] [3] [4] Historical Perspective The prominent J deflection attributed to hypothermia was first reported in 1938 by Tomaszewski. The wave was observed by others, including Kossmann, Grosse-Brockhoff and Schoedel, Bigelow et al, Juvenelle et al, and Osborn. [5] [6] [7] [8] Over the years, the unusual wave has increasingly been called an Osborn wave, probably because of Osborn's excellent descriptive article written in 1953. Clinicians labeled the deflection an Osborn wave in honor of Osborn, one of the first American Heart Association research fellows. [9] [10] Causes Common Causes • Hypothermia Causes of Osborn Waves in Alphabetical Order • Cerebrovascular accident[11] [12] • Coronary vasospasm • Damage to sympathetic nerve chain in the neck after radical neck dissection [13] • Hypercalcemia • Hypothermia • Subarachnoid hemorrhage[14] • Ventricular fibrillation, immediately before and after, often in the setting of vasospastic angina Diagnosis Electrocardiogram The most typical finding is the appearance of the Osborne J wave, an extra deflection between the QRS complex and the T wave. Osborn waves are positive deflections occurring at the junction between the QRS complex and the ST segment, where the S point, also known as the J joint, has a myocardial infarction-like elevation. Osborn waves are more prominent in the left precordial leads. They increases in size with decreasing temperature. They are caused by a current of injury, delayed ventricular depolarization, or early repolarization. Osborn waves may first appear on the ECG for temperatures less tahn 91.4 degrees Fahrenheit (33 degrees Celsius), and consistently appear when when the temperature falls below 25 degrees Centigrade. There is variability in the morphology of Osborn waves as all J wave deflections do not look alike. Some Osborn waves are merely elevations of ST segments in leads V and V , whereas others are of 1 2 the "spike-and-dome" variety. Given the variability in morphology, a variety of mechanisms may be responsible for the size and
