Valve disease - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: patients, valve, aortic, symptoms, regurgitation, heart, disease, murmur, mitral, severe, echo, systolic, therapy, stenosis, asymptomatic


Chapter 9 Valve disease Disease of the heart valves remains an important cause of morbidity and mortality across the world. While advances in echocardiography and the widespread availability of antibiotics have changed the prevalence, management, and especially the diagnosis of valve disease for specialists, very little has changed for generalists, who hear heart murmurs less frequently. Even though echo diagnosis is not readily available to generalists, they nevertheless feel pressured to identify murmurs and to report them, with their associated signs, in the referral letter. Similarly, for many examiners, the appeal of obscure murmurs for clinical short-case exams remains too great to resist, despite its mostly historical relevance. Yet, there are few greater pleasures in clinical medicine than having your stethoscopic diagnostic brilliance confirmed by an echo report. Furthermore, healthcare economics has prompted a renewed interest in the power of the stethoscope for diagnosing and even quantifying valve disease. The asymptomatic murmur Opinions differ as to the management of a murmur that has been picked up incidentally. By far the most common is the mid systolic 2/6 murmur (grade II – see Table 1). For children and young adults with an asymptomatic mid systolic murmur, a negative history and a negative physical exam are sufficient to exclude sinister pathology in most cases. Table 1 Grading of murmurs. In the elderly, it is important to differentiate between the common and benign aortic sclerosis and the less common and less benign aortic stenosis (AS). As such, close attention should be paid to the cardiac exam. In particular, AS is indicated by: murmur radiation the presence of a thrill a soft second heart sound In addition, an electrocardiogram should be carried out to screen for left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH), ischemia, and atrial size or conduction abnormalities. If none of the above is present and the patient remains asymptomatic, the most likely diagnosis is aortic sclerosis and no echo is required. Referral is warranted when a murmur in an asymptomatic patient is: systolic and grade III or above late systolic mid systolic and accompanied by clinical signs suggestive of AS diastolic continuous Aortic stenosis 1/13 Causes Congenital aortic stenosis Congenital AS is usually due to a bicuspid valve. A bicuspid valve in itself does not give rise to significant hemodynamic abnormality, but it has a tendency to calcify and a predisposition to infective endocarditis (see Table 2). Table 2 Clinical signs in aortic stenosis
