Valve disease - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: patients, valve, aortic, symptoms, regurgitation, heart, disease, murmur, mitral, severe, echo, systolic, therapy, stenosis, asymptomatic


not give rise to significant hemodynamic abnormality, but it has a tendency to calcify and a predisposition to infective endocarditis (see Table 2). Table 2 Clinical signs in aortic stenosis and aortic regurgitation. Rheumatic aortic stenosis Rheumatic AS results from cusp fusion and calcification many years following rheumatic fever. Senile aortic stenosis Senile, or degenerative, AS results from calcium deposition on the aortic surface of the valve. This is becoming an increasingly important disability problem in the elderly. Physical signs The carotid pulse is slow rising with reduced amplitude. The venous pressure is usually normal until late in the disease. The apex beat is sustained and can be doubled due to an additional atrial component. On auscultation, the second heart sound is single when the valve is calcified due to a lack of aortic component. The classic ejection systolic murmur, which can radiate to one or both carotids, is usually heard best over the aortic area. A soft, early diastolic murmur of aortic regurgitation (AR) often coexists. Investigation and management Echo is the diagnostic tool of choice for valve disease – in particular, Doppler measurement of valve gradients can quantify lesions. Significant hemodynamic changes do not occur until the aortic valve area has been reduced to a quarter of its normal size (the normal orifice is 3–4 cm2). AS is classed as: mild if the area is >1.5 cm2 2 moderate if the area is 1–1.5 cm 2 severe if the area is <1 cm The Invention of the Stethoscope "In the summer of 1816, Laennec was called to a young lady who presented the general symptoms of disease of the heart; the application of the hand to the chest and percussion afforded very little assistance, and immediate auscultation was interdicted by the sex and a embonpoint of the patient. The recollection of the well-known fact, that the tap of a pin at one end of a beam could be heard distinctly at the opposite end, induced him at the moment, to avail himself of this acoustic phenomenon. He took a quire of paper, rolled it tightly together, applied one extremity over the region of the heart, and putting the ear to the other, was surprised to find that he could distinguish the pulsation of the heart in a more distinct 2/13 manner than he could before do with the naked ear. Having hit upon the principle he extended its
