Valve disease - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: patients, valve, aortic, symptoms, regurgitation, heart, disease, murmur, mitral, severe, echo, systolic, therapy, stenosis, asymptomatic


could distinguish the pulsation of the heart in a more distinct 2/13 manner than he could before do with the naked ear. Having hit upon the principle he extended its application to the investigation of the various sounds produced in the chest by the respiration, the voice, and the accidental presence of fluids in the lung, pleural sac, and pericardium." Mediate Auscultation, 1816. (Quoted in The Lancet 1998;352:997.) a Corpulence, physically bulky. Severe stenosis causes a transvalvular pressure gradient of >50 mm Hg in the presence of normal transvalvular flow (ie, normal LV function). However, abnormally low pressure gradients are found in conditions of LV dysfunction, so the gradient alone is not a clear guide. The natural history of AS is one of slow progression. Studies suggest that some patients exhibit a decrease in valve area of 0.1–0.3 cm2/year, although no progression is discernible in many patients. However, regardless of the individual variability, symptoms of angina, syncope, or heart failure generally develop after a latent period. At this point, the outlook changes dramatically. After the onset of symptoms, the average survival is less than 3 years. Thus, development of symptoms is the critical point in the natural history of AS and thereafter the benefits of surgery outweigh the risk. Consequently, asymptomatic AS patients should be monitored closely. Although there is no clear consensus, most cardiologists follow-up mild AS annually (together with 5-yearly echos); moderate AS every 6 months (together with 2-yearly echos); and severe AS more frequently (together with annual echos). If a patient with AS presents with a change in symptoms, their next appointment at the cardiology clinic should be expedited. If a patient with severe AS is undergoing open chest bypass grafting for coexisting coronary artery disease (CAD), the opportunity should be taken to carry out aortic valve replacement (AVR) – regardless of whether or not AS symptoms are evident. The merit of carrying out a concomitant AVR is less clear for those with mild or moderate AS. Cardiac catheterization is only indicated in AS for two reasons: (1) to perform coronary angiography before AVR in patients with risk factors for CAD; (2) to assess the severity of AS in symptomatic patients when AVR is planned or when noninvasive tests are inconclusive (catheterization allows accurate quantification of the orifice because it can account for transvalvular flow). Contrary to popular belief, exercise testing is not contraindicated for mild to
