Valve disease - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: patients, valve, aortic, symptoms, regurgitation, heart, disease, murmur, mitral, severe, echo, systolic, therapy, stenosis, asymptomatic


noninvasive tests are inconclusive (catheterization allows accurate quantification of the orifice because it can account for transvalvular flow). Contrary to popular belief, exercise testing is not contraindicated for mild to moderate AS patients and can give useful information with respect to exercise capacity, heart rate recovery, and exercise-induced rise in blood pressure. Balloon valvotomy Percutaneous balloon aortic valvotomy (stretching a stenotic valve by balloon inflation) has an important role to play in the treatment of young adults with AS, but a very limited role in older 2 patients. This is because the postoperative valve area is rarely >1 cm and because complications are frequent (10%) and serious. This procedure can act as a "bridge" to reduce the requirement for surgery (with its inherent risk) in adult patients with refractory pulmonary edema or cardiogenic shock. Aortic valve replacement in the elderly Due to the limitations of medical therapy and balloon valvotomy, AVR should be considered for all elderly patients with symptomatic AS. However, the decision as to whether to carry out AVR is rarely straightforward and must take into account the risks as viewed by both the surgeon and the patient. Comorbidity in the form of LVH or CAD greatly increases the risk associated with 3/13 surgery. In addition, specific valve problems, such as heavy calcification and narrow LV outflow tract or annulus, make the procedure more complex. The decision is highly individual. Aortic regurgitation AR is associated with classic clinical signs (see Table 2): waterhammer (collapsing) pulse – detected by comparing the character of the radial pulse at the level of the heart with its character on elevation of the arm (use several fingers). Elevation accentuates the steep rise-and-fall character of this pulse, which seems to slap faster and harder against the fingers Corrigan's sign – visible arterial pulsation in the neck de Musset's sign – nodding of the head in time with the heartbeat Duroziez's sign – caused by retrograde diastolic flow in the femoral artery. Place the stethoscope on the femoral pulse and occlude the artery distally. The turbulent flow will be picked up as a "to-and-fro" murmur Quincke's sign – capillary pulsation in the nail beds that is visible on applying gentle pressure to induce a degree of whitening Traube's sign – a "pistol-shot" sound heard over the femoral pulse Müller's sign – pulsation of the uvula An early diastolic murmur is heard at the left lower
