Valve disease - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: patients, valve, aortic, symptoms, regurgitation, heart, disease, murmur, mitral, severe, echo, systolic, therapy, stenosis, asymptomatic


of whitening Traube's sign – a "pistol-shot" sound heard over the femoral pulse Müller's sign – pulsation of the uvula An early diastolic murmur is heard at the left lower sternal edge when the patient is sitting forward and holding his or her breath in expiration. There could also be a coexistent aortic systolic flow murmur, caused by the large stroke volume (rather than reflecting organic AS). There may be a mid diastolic murmur at the apex (Austin Flint murmur) caused by the regurgitant aortic jet vibrating the anterior mitral valve (MV) leaflet. Acute aortic regurgitation Acute AR is one hallmark of aortic dissection and is a medical emergency in its own right. A large regurgitant volume is suddenly imposed on an LV of normal size that has not had time to accommodate to the volume overload. The result is a reduction in stroke volume, compensatory tachycardia, pulmonary edema, and cardiogenic shock. Characteristic clinical findings are absent and an echo is essential to document the severity of the lesion. This is done by assessing the speed of equilibration of aortic and LV pressures in diastole. Useful echo measures are short regurgitant wave half time, short mitral deceleration time, and premature closure of the MV. Mortality is high in acute severe AR and early surgical intervention is essential. Nitroprusside can be helpful in reducing preload and afterload, possibly in combination with dobutamine or dopamine. Intra-aortic balloon pumping is absolutely contraindicated (it increases aortic diastolic pressure and worsens the regurgitation), while β-blockers, often used in the management of dissection, should be used with caution in associated acute severe AR as they dampen the compensatory tachycardia. Chronic aortic regurgitation An early diastolic murmur is always justification for referral to a cardiologist for assessment and echo. Causes Rheumatic involvement of the aortic valve, resulting in thickening of the cusps and fusion of the commissures – the valve neither opens nor closes completely. 4/13 Dilatation of the aortic root resulting from aneurysm of the ascending aorta – this is commonly seen in Marfan's syndrome. Dilatation of the aortic annulus can also result from connective tissue disease, such as ankylosing spondylitis, rheumatoid arthritis, Reiter's syndrome, relapsing polychondritis, or systemic lupus erythematosus. Dissecting aneurysm involving the aortic root. Syphilitic aortitis causing aortic aneurysm and dilatation of the valve ring that may involve the coronary ostia. Table 2 outlines the causes of aortic regurgitation. Natural history and therapeutic
