Valve disease - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: patients, valve, aortic, symptoms, regurgitation, heart, disease, murmur, mitral, severe, echo, systolic, therapy, stenosis, asymptomatic


root. Syphilitic aortitis causing aortic aneurysm and dilatation of the valve ring that may involve the coronary ostia. Table 2 outlines the causes of aortic regurgitation. Natural history and therapeutic options Chronic AR represents a condition of combined volume and pressure overload on the LV. The ejection fraction (EF) – the percentage of the end diastolic volume ejected during systole – is maintained by compensatory LVH and the majority of patients remain in this compensated phase for decades. However, in time, the EF drops. Although initially this is fully reversible, soon, due to progressive dilatation and remodeling, full recovery with AVR is out of reach. A large number of studies have identified LV systolic dysfunction and end systolic dimension as the key determinants of survival in patients undergoing AVR for AR. Thus, in contrast to AS, the critical point when the benefit of AVR outweighs the risk is determined not by symptoms, but by echo- determined LV function. More specifically, AVR is indicated in: patients with New York Heart Association (NYHA) class III or IV symptoms (see Chapter 7, Heart failure) and preserved LV systolic function – defined as normal EF (≥50% at rest) patients with NYHA class II symptoms and preserved LV systolic function at rest, but with progressive LV dilatation, declining rest EF, or declining effort tolerance (the trend is more important than the absolute level) patients with angina on walking or climbing stairs rapidly asymptomatic or symptomatic patients with mild to moderate LV dysfunction at rest (EF 25%–49%) patients undergoing open chest surgery for another reason (eg, bypass grafting) Exercise testing can be useful in AR if the patient is sedentary or has equivocal symptoms. It assesses functional capacity and the hemodynamic effects of exercise. Radionuclide ventriculography should be used if the echo window is poor. Cardiac catheterization is only required in patients at risk of CAD prior to AVR or where other tests are equivocal. Asymptomatic patients with no LV dysfunction should be encouraged to participate in all forms of normal daily activity, including exercise (although lifting weights should be avoided). Vasodilator therapy can, in theory, retard the natural history of chronic AR by reducing the regurgitant volume. However, very few studies have actually examined the effect of this treatment on the long-term outcome. Indications for vasodilator therapy (generally using long- acting nifedipine) are: long-term therapy in patients with severe regurgitation who have symptoms and/or LV
