Valve disease - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: patients, valve, aortic, symptoms, regurgitation, heart, disease, murmur, mitral, severe, echo, systolic, therapy, stenosis, asymptomatic


effect of this treatment on the long-term outcome. Indications for vasodilator therapy (generally using long- acting nifedipine) are: long-term therapy in patients with severe regurgitation who have symptoms and/or LV dysfunction, when surgery is not recommended long-term therapy in asymptomatic patients with severe regurgitation who have LV dilatation, but normal systolic function 5/13 long-term therapy in asymptomatic patients with hypertension and any degree of regurgitation long-term therapy in patients with persistent LV systolic dysfunction after AVR (angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor) short-term therapy to improve the hemodynamic profile of patients with severe heart failure symptoms and severe LV dysfunction before proceeding with AVR Asymptomatic patients with mild AR and normal LV systolic function should be seen by a cardiologist annually and undergo echo every 2–3 years. Asymptomatic patients with normal systolic function, but severe AR and significant LV dilatation (end diastolic diameter >6 cm), require more frequent evaluation. These patients should be seen by a cardiologist every 6 months and undergo echo every 6–12 months. Mitral stenosis The MV apparatus consists of three components: two leaflets, the fibrous annulus, and the chordae tendineae, which connect the leaflets to the papillary muscles (see Figure 1). The anterior leaflet is larger than the posterior leaflet (see Figure 2). The normal area of the MV orifice is 4–5 cm2. Symptoms of mitral stenosis (MS) develop when the orifice is <2.5 cm2 and a 2 critical stenosis occurs when it is approximately 1 cm (see Figure 3). The signs and causes of MS are outlined in Table 3. Figure 1 The structure of the mitral valve apparatus. Figure 2 A calcified mitral valve posterior leaflet in diastole. Figure 3 Mitral stenosis with left atrial dilatation. This figure shows a thickened mital valve arrow. The spontaneous contrast is a good illustration of the thrombogenicity of the blood in the left atrium. This is believed to be the first step before the formation (more...) Table 3 Common murmurs in mitral stenosis and mitral regurgitation with their associated signs and causes. Causes Rheumatic heart disease is the most common cause of MS, although it pre-dates the symptoms by at least 10 years. Other acquired causes are rare – eg, annular calcification, endocarditis, or granulomatous infiltration in association with eosinophilia. Signs Symptoms of MS generally occur during exertion, infection, stress, or with the onset of atrial fibrillation (AF) with a rapid ventricular response. This is because a left atrial (LA)
