Valve disease - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: patients, valve, aortic, symptoms, regurgitation, heart, disease, murmur, mitral, severe, echo, systolic, therapy, stenosis, asymptomatic


Signs Symptoms of MS generally occur during exertion, infection, stress, or with the onset of atrial fibrillation (AF) with a rapid ventricular response. This is because a left atrial (LA) pressure that 6/13 is normal at rest rises with an increase in transmitral flow or a decrease in the diastolic filling time. The most common manifestation is breathlessness, but a reduction in exercise tolerance or symptoms of right-sided congestion can also occur. The typical physical signs are described in Table 4. Figure 4 demonstrates MS in echo, electrocardiography pressure tracing, and a chest x- ray. Table 4 The typical physical signs of mitral stenosis. Figure 4 Mitral stenosis demonstrated by (a) echocardiography (showing thickened leaflets that no longer open), (b) electrocardiography pressure tracing in the left atrium versus left ventricle demonstrating the gradient between the two cavities (and therefore (more...) Natural history The disease takes a slow course with progressive acceleration later in life. In developed countries, the lag period from the time of rheumatic fever to the onset of symptoms is 20–40 years, and there is another 10 years before these symptoms become disabling. The 10-year survival rate is high for asymptomatic patients (>80%), but low for those with symptoms (0%– 2 15%). Asymptomatic patients with mild MS (MV area >1.5 cm ) require no further evaluation and do not need to be followed up more than annually. Percutaneous and surgical therapy Decisions on therapy are made by joint consideration of symptoms and MV morphology (including hemodynamics and pulmonary artery pressure). Therapeutic options include MV repair (open/closed commissurotomy), MV replacement, and percutaneous valvotomy. Both repair and percutaneous valvotomy acutely result in a doubling of the valve area and a 60% reduction in transmitral gradient. However, open commissurotomy and percutaneous valvotomy produce better long-term hemodynamic results. The current recommendations for percutaneous and surgical therapy are outlined in Table 5. Table 5 Current recommendations for surgical therapy. Medical therapy Prophylaxis against rheumatic fever and endocarditis should be considered for all patients with MS. Agents with negative chronotropic properties, such as β-blockers or calcium-channel blockers, may benefit those in sinus rhythm with symptoms relating to exertional tachycardia. Atrial fibrillation AF develops in 40% of patients with symptomatic MS and should be treated according to standard protocols (see Chapter 8, Arrhythmia). The value of anticoagulation therapy for those with AF and those with a prior embolic event with or without AF is clear.
