Valve disease - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: patients, valve, aortic, symptoms, regurgitation, heart, disease, murmur, mitral, severe, echo, systolic, therapy, stenosis, asymptomatic


according to standard protocols (see Chapter 8, Arrhythmia). The value of anticoagulation therapy for those with AF and those with a prior embolic event with or without AF is clear. However, there is no evidence that oral anticoagulation is beneficial in those with MS who have neither AF nor a prior embolic event. The frequency of embolic events does not seem to be related to the severity of MS, the size of the LA, or the presence of symptoms. There is some controversy over whether 7/13 percutaneous mitral valvotomy should be performed in patients with new-onset AF and moderate or severe MS who are otherwise asymptomatic. Mitral regurgitation Acute mitral regurgitation In acute severe mitral regurgitation (MR), the hemodynamic changes are not tolerated and the result is generally acute decompensation. Without time for compensatory LV and LA dilatation, the increase in ventricular preload leads to a decreased stroke volume and pulmonary congestion. However, examination findings may not be typical: there may be no hyperdynamic apex beat the systolic murmur may be short there may be a fourth heart sound The most common cause of acute MR is papillary muscle rupture secondary to myocardial infarction (MI) (see Figure 5). In this situation, the principal differential diagnosis is ventricular septal defect and an echo is required to differentiate between the two. Ventricular septal defect is more likely with: Figure 5 (a) Transesophageal echocardiography showing a tear in the papillary muscle (the most common cause of acute mitral regurgitation). (b) The same scene with a color jet from the left ventricle into the left atrium, demonstrating "blood flow" in the wrong (more...) right-sided radiation of murmur raised jugular venous pressure (JVP) anterior MI (inferior MI is more likely to cause acute MR) The goal of medical therapy in acute severe MR is to diminish regurgitation, increase stroke volume, and reduce pulmonary congestion. As such, nitroprusside alone or in combination with dobutamine (if blood pressure is low) can be effective. Intra-aortic balloon pumping can also help to achieve these goals. In many cases, emergency surgery is warranted. If so, prior transesophageal echo helps to characterize the anatomy and severity of the lesion. Cardiac catheterization should be performed if the patient is at high risk for CAD. Chronic mitral regurgitation Causes Degenerative MV disease is common in the elderly. The valve leaflets are thickened, redundant, increased in area, and they prolapse into the LA in
