Valve disease - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: patients, valve, aortic, symptoms, regurgitation, heart, disease, murmur, mitral, severe, echo, systolic, therapy, stenosis, asymptomatic


for CAD. Chronic mitral regurgitation Causes Degenerative MV disease is common in the elderly. The valve leaflets are thickened, redundant, increased in area, and they prolapse into the LA in systole. The chordae may become elongated, thinned, and tortuous – predisposing to rupture. Infective endocarditis is a major cause of chronic MR. Vegetations developing on the cusp vary from small nodules along the line of apposition to large friable masses of up to 10 mm or more (see Figure 6). "Jet" lesions on the anterior cusp of the MV can also occur in association with aortic valve endocarditis. Ischemia. 8/13 Figure 6 Echocardiogram showing a vegetation on the mitral valve (arrow). Clinical signs The clinical signs of chronic MR are outlined in Table 6. With severe MR, the regurgitant murmur is usually short and stops at the same time as aortic valve closure. Occasionally, the murmur can hardly be heard due to early equalization of atrioventricular pressures. The signs and causes of MR are outlined in Table 3. Table 6 The clinical signs of chronic mitral regurgitation. Natural history In chronic MR, the increased preload and decreased afterload of the LV (caused by ejection of some of the stroke volume into the LA) are compensated for by LV and LA dilatation, and the total stroke volume is increased (the EF is also maintained). This compensated phase of chronic MR may last for years. Eventually, however, the volume overload causes sufficient dilatation to push the LV onto the downward portion of the Frank–Starling curve and dysfunction results (see Figure 7). Importantly, the loading conditions mean that this dysfunction might not be reflected in an abnormal EF (the EF in a patient with MR and normal LV function is >60%). Figure 7 Frank–Starling curve showing left ventricular (LV) dysfunction. Asymptomatic patients with mild MR and no evidence of LV dilatation or dysfunction can be followed on a yearly basis and undergo echo less frequently than that. Asymptomatic patients with moderate MR should have an echo annually. Asymptomatic patients with severe MR should be followed up every 6–12 months and undergo echo to detect silent LV dysfunction. Exercise testing is useful to document changes in exercise tolerance. The timing of surgery is determined by the EF, LV end systolic dimension (LVESD), the presence of AF, and symptoms. It is indicated for those with: class II–IV symptoms, EF >60%, LVESD <45 mm EF 30%–60%,
