Valve disease - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: patients, valve, aortic, symptoms, regurgitation, heart, disease, murmur, mitral, severe, echo, systolic, therapy, stenosis, asymptomatic


by the EF, LV end systolic dimension (LVESD), the presence of AF, and symptoms. It is indicated for those with: class II–IV symptoms, EF >60%, LVESD <45 mm EF 30%–60%, LVESD 45–55 mm (regardless of symptoms) asymptomatic patients with AF and normal EF symptomatic patients with normal EF and pulmonary hypertension (>50 mm Hg) asymptomatic patients with EF 50%–60% and LVESD <45 mm, or EF >60% and LVESD 45–55 mm patients with EF <30% and/or LVESD >55 mm in whom the chordae tendineae are likely to be intact (ie, no previous MI in that territory) The operation of choice is MV repair. In many patients, however, replacement of the valve together with removal of part or all of the MV apparatus (chordae) is required. The repair procedure leads to better postoperative LV function and survival. 9/13 There is no generally accepted medical therapy for chronic MR. Although vasodilators might seem a sensible choice, in fact, in compensated chronic MR the afterload is decreased (since the LV has two routes of ejection); as such, drugs that reduce the afterload further are unlikely to be beneficial. Chronic MR can also occur due to a primary ischemic cause, relating either to LV dysfunction or to chordal ischemia – revascularization or stenting can eliminate the episodes. Functional mitral regurgitation The normal function of the MV depends on the cusps, ring, and subvalvular apparatus, including papillary muscle fibers and the circumferential muscle layer supporting the mitral ring. Each of these components plays a significant role in maintaining the competence of the valve. With papillary muscle dysfunction due to ischemia or other causes of ventricular disease, cusp closure is not complete, leading to some degree of regurgitation. This can even occur, for example, in athletic hypertrophy. This is usually mild, but can be significant in rare cases. In such conditions, the heart rate is usually fast and the duration of MR long enough to compromise filling time and hence cardiac output. Although functional in origin, it can be hemodynamically significant. Alfred de Musset a "La bouche garde le silence, Pour écouter parler le coeur." Alfred de Musset (1810–1857), La Nuit de Mai The French romantic poet and playwright, Alfred de Musset (1810–1857), was famous for both his creative brain and his pathological heart. His most inspiring work was prompted by the ending of a love affair he had with George Sand (a French romantic writer who
