Valve disease - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: patients, valve, aortic, symptoms, regurgitation, heart, disease, murmur, mitral, severe, echo, systolic, therapy, stenosis, asymptomatic


his creative brain and his pathological heart. His most inspiring work was prompted by the ending of a love affair he had with George Sand (a French romantic writer who later had a 10-year relationship with Chopin). During a visit to Venice in 1834, both Sand and he became very unwell. Such was the quality of care and attention lavished on them by their physician that Sand fell in love with this man and de Musset returned to France alone (where he penned some of his best work). He spent the last 2 years of his life housebound, his heart broken by the combined effects of lost love, aortic regurgitation, and alcohol- related cardiomyopathy. The nodding of his head in time with his heartbeat, the classic eponymous sign of aortic regurgitation, was described by his brother in a biography. When told of it, de Musset apparently placed his thumb and forefinger on his neck and his head stopped bobbing. a The mouth keeps silent to hear the heart speak. Mitral valve prolapse MV prolapse (MVP) is the single most common valvular abnormality. It affects 2%–6% of the population and is defined as a backward movement of one or both leaflets of the MV (usually the anterior) into the LA during (ventricular) systole. In most cases it is associated with trivial MR. However, as a result of its prevalence, it is also the most common single cause of significant MR. Although MVP does not alter life expectancy, all of the above complications of MR can occur. Sudden death, often reported as an association with MVP, is rare (<2% on long-term follow-up). Classic findings on auscultation are a mid systolic click followed by a late systolic murmur. The click is thought to be caused by a tensing of the MV apparatus as the leaflets prolapse into the LA. The murmur is usually high pitched and loudest at the apex. Certain maneuvers can help to secure the diagnosis: standing reduces end diastolic volume (EDV), bringing the click–murmur 10/13 nearer to the first heart sound; squatting increases EDV (and afterload), moving the click– murmur nearer to the second heart sound. Patients with these findings should be referred for echo assessment. Interestingly, there is no absolute consensus on criteria for diagnosing MVP on two-dimensional echo. The diagnosis should never be made on one view alone (especially if that is the 4-chamber view). Serial echos are
