Valve disease - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: patients, valve, aortic, symptoms, regurgitation, heart, disease, murmur, mitral, severe, echo, systolic, therapy, stenosis, asymptomatic


absolute consensus on criteria for diagnosing MVP on two-dimensional echo. The diagnosis should never be made on one view alone (especially if that is the 4-chamber view). Serial echos are not necessary unless there is a change in the clinical picture. Management involves reassurance and prophylaxis for endocarditis. Patients who suffer from palpitations should have Holter/event monitoring to make a firm diagnosis. Aspirin is recommended for patients with documented focal neurological events who are in sinus rhythm and have no atrial thrombus. Recurrent transient ischemic attacks or stroke in MVP patients demand long-term warfarin therapy. Ultimately, MV repair may be required, and the indications are as for MR (described above). Tricuspid valve disease In comparison with the left side, the right side of the heart is a low-pressure system. Consequently, disorders such as endocarditis, in which high-pressure jets help to "seed" the infective vegetations, occur less frequently. The notable exception is in intravenous drug abusers, where right-sided endocarditis is more common. Perhaps the most common cause of tricuspid valve incompetence, however, is elevated right ventricular (RV) pressure, secondary to pulmonary hypertension, MS, pulmonary stenosis, dilated cardiomyopathy, or RV failure. In addition, rheumatic heart disease can affect the tricuspid valve and tends to produce a combination of tricuspid stenosis and regurgitation – the overriding symptoms are those of regurgitation. Ebstein's anomaly is a congenital disorder affecting the tricuspid valve (see Chapter 14, Adult congenital heart disease). Clinical signs Physical examination is key to the diagnosis of tricuspid regurgitation. Typical signs are: gross fluid retention significant peripheral edema ascites that may result in nausea raised JVP with a prominent systolic wave and sharp Y descent parasternal heave and loud P2, suggesting pulmonary hypertension as a cause an enlarged, tender, pulsatile liver and, occasionally, mild jaundice a pansystolic murmur at the left lower sternal edge that is increased by inspiration Management Severe tricuspid regurgitation resulting from any cause is associated with a poor long-term outcome due to RV dysfunction and systemic venous congestion. The timing of surgery and the most suitable operation remain controversial, although chordal reconstruction and annuloplasty have become established in recent years. Annuloplasty involves the use of a prosthetic ring to support the endogenous dilated annulus. Valve replacement is also possible. Medical management treats fluid retention and AF. Standard protocols are used, although high doses and combination diuretics are often required. Pulmonary valve disease 11/13 Pulmonary regurgitation is caused by
