Valve disease - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: patients, valve, aortic, symptoms, regurgitation, heart, disease, murmur, mitral, severe, echo, systolic, therapy, stenosis, asymptomatic


possible. Medical management treats fluid retention and AF. Standard protocols are used, although high doses and combination diuretics are often required. Pulmonary valve disease 11/13 Pulmonary regurgitation is caused by pulmonary hypertension and annular dilatation resulting from various causes of left-sided heart disease (as well as primary pulmonary hypertension). An early diastolic murmur (Graham Steell murmur) is heard over the pulmonary area and should be distinguished from that of AR. Antibiotic prophylaxis is only required if the cause is rheumatic. Most pulmonary valve disease does not need treatment. However, valve replacement can be carried out in cases of intractable right heart failure. Valve disease in pregnancy In pregnancy, there is a 50% increase in circulating blood volume. The cardiac output peaks between the second and third trimesters, predominantly due to an increase in stroke volume, although the heart rate also increases by up to 20%. Total peripheral resistance falls disproportionately, reducing the diastolic blood pressure and widening the pulse pressure. Occasionally, in the supine position the inferior vena cava can be compressed by a gravid uterus, leading to an abrupt decrease in venous return. This can result in light headedness, but quickly resolves on changing position. The increased blood volume and cardiac output can accentuate stenotic murmurs, while the lowered peripheral resistance can actually reduce regurgitant murmurs. In general, echo demonstrates a degree of "physiological" chamber enlargement that, in a significant minority of women, may be associated with functional MR. In some conditions (eg, cyanotic heart disease, Eisenmenger syndrome, and severe pulmonary hypertension), the changes resulting from pregnancy greatly increase risk and most cardiologists would counsel against pregnancy. The following are also associated with increased risk, either to the mother or fetus: severe AS MR/AR with class III–IV symptoms MS with class II–IV symptoms pulmonary pressures >75% of systemic EF <40% mechanical prosthetic valves requiring anticoagulation AR in Marfan's syndrome Although risk is increased, many patients with valvular abnormalities can be managed through pregnancy with conservative medical measures aimed at optimizing intravascular volume. Mitral stenosis Penicillin prophylaxis should be continued in pregnant women with MS. The cautious use of diuretics and β-blockers in those with mild to moderate disease can prevent tachycardia and optimize diastolic filling. For women with severe disease, a percutaneous balloon valvotomy prior to conception should be considered. Those who develop class III–IV symptoms during pregnancy should also undergo valvotomy. This can be achieved with very limited
