Pancreatitis Secondary to Hypertriglyceridemia
KEYWORDS: levels, triglyceride, pancreatitis, triglyceride levels, patients, hypertriglyceridemia, acute, acute pancreatitis, fcs, high, chylomicronemia, treatment, secondary, syndrome, lipase


CLINICAL ASPECTS After ethanol and gallstones hypertriglyceridemia is the third leading cause of acute pancreatitis causing between 5-25% of episodes. During pregnancy hypertriglyceridemia is the leading cause of acute pancreatitis accounting for up to 50% of cases. During pregnancy acute pancreatitis occurs most commonly in the third trimester but may occur in the first or second trimester. The frequency of acute pancreatitis due to hypertriglyceridemia during pregnancy is estimated to be between 1 in 1,000-12,000 pregnancies. Pancreatitis due to hypertriglyceridemia may also occur during infusion of lipid emulsions for parenteral feeding or with use of the anesthetic agent propofol, which is infused in a 10% fat emulsion. Regardless of the cause of the hypertriglyceridemia the risk of acute pancreatitis increases the higher the triglyceride levels with the risk particularly elevated when triglyceride levels exceed 1,000-2,000mg/dL. In individuals with triglyceride levels between 1,000-1,999mg/dL the prevalence of acute pancreatitis is estimated to be approximately 10% and if the triglyceride levels are greater than 2,000mg/dL the prevalence is estimated to be approximately 20%. It should be noted that the susceptibility to acute pancreatitis is variable with some patients with very high triglyceride levels (>10,000mg/dL) not developing pancreatitis while some patients with lower triglyceride levels (400-1000mg/dL) develop pancreatitis. In some instances, the lower triglyceride levels may be due to a decrease in triglyceride levels secondary to the inability to eat prior to seeking medical attention. Individuals with familial hyperchylomicronemia syndrome are at greater risk of developing acute pancreatitis compared to individuals with multifactorial chylomicronemia syndrome (see discussion below describing these disorders). The acute pancreatitis secondary to hypertriglyceridemia can be severe and life-threatening. Studies have suggested that acute pancreatitis is more severe in patients with hypertriglyceridemia induced pancreatitis compared to patients with other causes of pancreatitis. If the hypertriglyceridemia is not treated recurrent episodes of pancreatitis can occur leading to chronic pancreatitis with associated exocrine pancreatic insufficiency resulting in malabsorption and endocrine pancreatic failure leading to diabetes. The high levels of plasma triglycerides can interfere with assays of plasma pancreatic enzymes (lipase and amylase) resulting in inaccurate low levels and therefore the clinician should not eliminate the possibility of pancreatitis based on low amylase and lipase levels. PATHOGENESIS OF PANCREATITIS The mechanism by which elevated triglyceride levels lead to pancreatitis is not fully understood. A leading hypothesis is that the interaction of high levels of triglyceride rich lipoproteins with pancreatic lipase in the pancreatic capillaries
