Pancreatitis Secondary to Hypertriglyceridemia
KEYWORDS: levels, triglyceride, pancreatitis, triglyceride levels, patients, hypertriglyceridemia, acute, acute pancreatitis, fcs, high, chylomicronemia, treatment, secondary, syndrome, lipase


triglyceride levels lead to pancreatitis is not fully understood. A leading hypothesis is that the interaction of high levels of triglyceride rich lipoproteins with pancreatic lipase in the pancreatic capillaries leads to the breakdown of triglycerides to free fatty acids and phospholipids to lysophosphatidylcholine. Both free fatty acids and lysophosphatidylcholine could induce pancreatic damage resulting in pancreatitis. Additionally, the elevated chylomicron levels increase plasma viscosity in the pancreatic capillaries resulting in stasis and hypoxia that can injure the pancreas. PATHOGENESIS OF CHYLOMICRONEMIA Chylomicronemia may be due to a monogenic disorder (familial chylomicronemia syndrome; FCS), multiple genes in association with other factors (multifactorial chylomicronemia syndrome; MFCS), lipodystrophies (for additional information on lipodystrophies see the Endotext chapter entitled “Lipodystrophy Syndromes: Presentation and Treatment”), or antibodies against the enzyme lipoprotein lipase, Apo C-II, or GPIHBP1. Greater than 95% of patients with chylomicronemia have MFCS. FCS is an autosomal recessive disorder that is very rare with an estimated prevalence of about 1 in 300,000. It may be due to biallelic pathogenic variants in lipoprotein lipase (LPL), Apo C-II, Apo A-5, glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored high-density lipoprotein–binding protein 1 (GPIHBP1), or lipase maturation factor 1 (LMF1) with abnormalities in LPL being the most common abnormality (60-80%) (either homozygous or compound heterozygous for two defective LPL alleles). Individuals who have a single allelic pathogenic variant may have normal triglyceride levels or moderately elevated triglyceride levels, which in combination with other factors can result in very high triglyceride levels (see below). Autoantibodies to LPL, Apo C-II, and GPIHBP1 have been reported to lead to chylomicronemia and mimic FCS. Patients with FCS primarily have chylomicrons contributing to the hypertriglyceridemia. Individuals with FCS usually present in childhood or early adolescence but can be first diagnosed in adults. Typical features are very high triglycerides (>1000mg/dL), eruptive xanthomas, lipemia retinalis, hepatosplenomegaly, and pancreatitis. Individuals with FCS are not at a higher risk for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. The diagnosis of FCS should be considered in patients who are young, do not have secondary causes of hypertriglyceridemia, have a poor response to therapy, and no history of previous triglyceride levels less than 200mg/dL. The triglyceride/total cholesterol ratio is often greater than 8mg/dL and the Apo B100 level less than 1g/L. Scoring systems have been developed in Europe and North America, using the criteria described above, to diagnose FCS. Genetic studies if available can definitively diagnose FCS. MFCS is a relatively common disorder (1:250 to 1:600 in
