Pancreatitis Secondary to Hypertriglyceridemia
KEYWORDS: levels, triglyceride, pancreatitis, triglyceride levels, patients, hypertriglyceridemia, acute, acute pancreatitis, fcs, high, chylomicronemia, treatment, secondary, syndrome, lipase


Europe and North America, using the criteria described above, to diagnose FCS. Genetic studies if available can definitively diagnose FCS. MFCS is a relatively common disorder (1:250 to 1:600 in the general population) that is due in many patients to polygenic hypertriglyceridemia (multiple genes that each have a small effect) or heterozygosity for a gene causing FCS (single gene that has large effect). These genetic abnormalities typically result in triglyceride levels between150mg/dL to 500mg/dL but in combination with secondary factors such as disorders or drugs that further elevate triglyceride levels can result in very high triglyceride levels. Common disorders that can elevate triglyceride levels include poorly controlled diabetes, obesity, pregnancy, renal disease, hypothyroidism, and HIV ( Table 1 ) and common drugs that increase triglyceride levels are ethanol, oral estrogens, glucocorticoids, retinoids, beta blockers, thiazide and loop diuretics, protease inhibitors, and atypical anti-psychotics ( Table 2 ). Individuals with MFCS have an increase in both VLDL and chylomicrons and are at a higher risk for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. If the secondary disorder is successfully treated or the drug discontinued the very high triglyceride levels typically return to the mild to moderately elevated range (150mg/dL to 500mg/dL). Table 1. Disorders Associated with an Increase in Triglyceride Levels View in own window Obesity Alcohol intake High simple carbohydrate diet; high fat diet Diabetes Metabolic syndrome Polycystic ovary syndrome Hypothyroidism Chronic renal failure Nephrotic syndrome Pregnancy Inflammatory diseases (Rheumatoid arthritis, Lupus, psoriasis, etc.) Infections Acute stress (myocardial infarctions, burns, etc.) HIV Cushing’s syndrome Growth hormone deficiency Lipodystrophy Glycogen Storage disease Acute hepatitis Monoclonal gammopathy Table 2. Drugs That Increase Triglyceride Levels View in own window Alcohol Oral Estrogens Tamoxifen/Raloxifene Glucocorticoids Retinoids Beta blockers Thiazide diuretics Loop diuretics Protease Inhibitors Cyclosporine, sirolimus, and tacrolimus Atypical anti-psychotics Bile acid sequestrants L-asparaginase Androgen deprivation therapy Cyclophosphamide Alpha-interferon Propofol DIAGNOSIS AND DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS The diagnosis of acute pancreatitis secondary to hypertriglyceridemia is confirmed if the triglyceride levels are very high (>1,000mg/dL) and there is not another likely cause of the acute pancreatitis. Hypertriglyceridemia as a likely cause of acute pancreatitis can sometimes be suspected during the physical exam by detecting eruptive xanthomas or lipemia retinalis. As noted earlier marked elevations in triglyceride levels can result in falsely low serum amylase and lipase and therefore the diagnosis may be dependent on CT evaluation of the pancreas. THERAPY DURING ACUTE PANCREATITIS The management of acute pancreatitis secondary to hypertriglyceridemia
