Pancreatitis Secondary to Hypertriglyceridemia
KEYWORDS: levels, triglyceride, pancreatitis, triglyceride levels, patients, hypertriglyceridemia, acute, acute pancreatitis, fcs, high, chylomicronemia, treatment, secondary, syndrome, lipase


low serum amylase and lipase and therefore the diagnosis may be dependent on CT evaluation of the pancreas. THERAPY DURING ACUTE PANCREATITIS The management of acute pancreatitis secondary to hypertriglyceridemia is similar to the management of pancreatitis due to other causes except for the need to lower triglyceride levels as quickly as possible. Admission to the hospital, cessation of oral food intake, intravenous hydration, management of metabolic abnormalities, and pain management are routinely provided. With cessation of food intake plasma triglycerides usually decrease rapidly (approximately 50% decrease in 24 hours). Parenteral feeding with lipid emulsions should be avoided since they will delay the clearance of triglyceride rich lipoproteins and exacerbate the hypertriglyceridemia. There are a number of other therapies that have been proposed for the treatment of acute pancreatitis to rapidly lower triglyceride levels. Unfortunately, there are not carefully carried out randomized trials demonstrating the benefit of these treatments. Insulin stimulates LPL activity and therefore insulin administration has been proposed as a treatment. There is no evidence that in patients without diabetes that insulin improves the outcome in patients with pancreatitis and elevated triglycerides. Thus, insulin administration is not recommended for most patients. However, in patients with poorly controlled diabetes (i.e., elevated plasma glucose levels) insulin should be administered to both lower glucose levels and increase LPL activity thereby accelerating the clearance of triglyceride rich lipoproteins. Heparin infusion transiently increases LPL activity by releasing LPL from the endothelium but over an extended period this results in a decrease in LPL activity. Therefore, most experts do not recommend the use of heparin to lower triglyceride levels. Additionally, heparin may increase the risk of hemorrhagic pancreatitis. Lipoprotein apheresis, plasmapheresis, or plasma exchange have been employed in patients with pancreatitis secondary to hypertriglyceridemia. These procedures rapidly lower plasma triglyceride levels but studies have not definitively demonstrated a decrease in morbidity or mortality. These procedures are costly with the potential for adverse reactions (allergic reactions, infections, thrombosis, etc.) and therefore in the absence of evidence demonstrating benefit most experts do not recommend these procedures for most patients. Plasmapheresis or plasma exchange may be an option in patients with severe hypertriglyceridemia with persistent hypertriglyceridemia after the first 48-72 hours, pancreatitis secondary to hypertriglyceridemia during pregnancy, and patients with very severe pancreatitis (high levels of lipase, hypocalcemia, lactic acidosis, generalized organ dysfunction, etc.). Note that these recommendations are not evidence based but based on clinical experience.
