Pancreatitis Secondary to Hypertriglyceridemia
KEYWORDS: levels, triglyceride, pancreatitis, triglyceride levels, patients, hypertriglyceridemia, acute, acute pancreatitis, fcs, high, chylomicronemia, treatment, secondary, syndrome, lipase


and patients with very severe pancreatitis (high levels of lipase, hypocalcemia, lactic acidosis, generalized organ dysfunction, etc.). Note that these recommendations are not evidence based but based on clinical experience. FOLLOW-UP The long-term treatment of patients with pancreatitis secondary to hypertriglyceridemia is essential to prevent recurrent episodes of pancreatitis. It is very important to recognize that the treatment of hypertriglyceridemia is different in patients with familiar hyperchylomicronemia syndrome (FHS) and multifactorial chylomicronemia syndrome (MFCS). The primary treatment of individuals with FHS is dietary therapy. Dietary fat calories need to be severely restricted to approximately 5-15% of calories. It is very difficult for most patients to follow such a fat restricted diet. Medium-chain triglycerides, which are not incorporated into chylomicrons and are delivered to the liver via the portal vein are a potential alternate fat source for these patients. One should monitor for deficiency of fat-soluble vitamins (A, D, E, K) and replace as necessary. Patients need to be seen by a dietician with expertise in the dietary management of FCS. Pregnancy in individuals with FCS need to be carefully planned with close monitoring to avoid acute pancreatitis. Similar, to the treatment of MFCS described below drugs that increase triglyceride levels should be discontinued if possible and conditions that raise triglyceride levels treated. Omega-3-fatty acids (fish oil) do not lower triglyceride levels in patients with FHS and may raise triglyceride levels. Fibrates and niacin are also not effective, but a few studies have suggested that orlistat may be beneficial. Volanesorsen, an antisense oligonucleotide inhibitor of apo C-III mRNA, is approved in Europe but not the United States for the treatment of FCS. Volanesorsen can lead to low platelet levels and therefore was not approved in the US. Olezarsen is an antisense oligonucleotide that reduces apo C-III production by binding to Apo C-III mRNA and inducing its degradation. Olezarsen has the same nucleotide sequence and backbone chemical composition as volanesorsen and differs from it only through conjugation with GalNAc3, which facilitates uptake by the liver allowing for the administration of lower doses and fewer adverse effects. It is approved in the US for the treatment of patients with FCS. Both drugs decrease triglyceride levels in patients with FCS and reduce the risk of pancreatitis (for additional information on these drugs see the Endotext chapter entitled Triglyceride Lowering Drugs”). In patients with MFCS one should try to reverse the secondary factors that are
