Case Rep Gastroenterol 2017;11:599–602
KEYWORDS: hematoma, bowel, bleeding, case, colonoscopy, bowel wall, wall hematoma, complication, wall, abdominal, complications, fatal, pain, postpolypectomy, potentially fatal


normal except for mild erythema of the ascending colon and rectum without ulceration, and moderate pan-colonic diverticulosis. Following the procedure, the patient experienced sharp, left-lower quadrant abdominal pain. She was directed to the Emergency Department for further evaluation. An abdominal CT scan showed a new 1.8 cm × 2.9 cm fluid collection between the inferior pole of the spleen and the splenic flexure without con- trast extravasation or abdominal free air (Fig. 1), suggestive of a bowel wall hematoma. Vital signs were stable and initial lab results, including hemoglobin, were normal. The patient was admitted for close hemodynamic monitoring and pain management. She was discharged home the following day, and at outpatient follow-up 2 weeks later she was completely pain- free. Repeat abdominal CT 4 months later showed complete resolution of the bowel wall hematoma. Discussion While complications associated with colonoscopy are rare and generally benign, there are certain complications, particularly those associated with polypectomy, that can be fatal . Relatively minor complications include abdominal pain, bloating, diarrhea, nausea, self- limited gastrointestinal bleeding and side effects of pharmacologic sedation. More severe complications include colon perforation, high-volume gastrointestinal bleeding, diverticulitis and postpolypectomy syndrome . A much more rare complication of colonoscopy is bowel wall hematoma . Typical presenting symptoms are similar to those of other postcolonos- copy complications, including abdominal pain and gastrointestinal bleeding, making this potentially fatal complication difficult to diagnose. Prior studies have suggested that CT scan is the most effective way to diagnose postcolonoscopy complications including perforation or bowel wall hematoma . This case highlights how a potentially fatal postpolypectomy bowel wall hematoma can present with vague and easily dismissible symptoms. As such, it is important for providers to understand the differential diagnosis of postcolonoscopy compli- cations and have a high index of suspicion for patients who may require further workup of more severe complications. Additionally, this case models a conservative approach to the management of a stable bowel wall hematoma that includes initial hospital admission for hemodynamic observation, hemoglobin monitoring, and symptom control, with close outpa- tient reassessment. Case Rep Gastroenterol 2017;11:599–602 601 DOI: © 2017 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel www.karger.com/crg Mankoo and Kuwajima: Postpolypectomy Intramural Colonic Hematoma: The Conservative Management of a Potentially Fatal Complication Statement of Ethics lumbia, MO, USA, implying that it meets medical ethical standards; patient consent was waived as information used in the case report was deidentified to
