TraumaCaseReports45(2023)100826
KEYWORDS: contrast-enhanced, packing, tae, performed, day, hemostasis, injury, bleeding, patient, strategy, dcs, embolization, right, liver, useful


TraumaCaseReports45(2023)100826 Contents lists available at ScienceDirect Trauma Case Reports journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/tcr Case Report Use of preoperative contrast-enhanced computed tomography in damage control strategy for blunt liver injury: A case report Shunsuke Madokoro*, Yutaka Kondo*, Kohei Ishikawa, Yukari Miyoshi, Atsushi Miyazato, Yuki Nakamura, Koichiro Sueyoshi, Ken Okamoto, Hiroshi Tanaka A R T I C L E I N F O A B S T R A C T Keywords: For patients with unstable abdominal trauma unresponsive to initial transfusion, the damage Liver injury control strategy includes prompt hemostasis by open surgery and packing. Recently, a hybrid Damage control strategy treatment that combines packing and transcatheter arterial embolization as a damage control Angiographic embolization strategy was reported to be effective; however, the indications and techniques are yet to be Contrast-enhanced computed tomography established. A 25-year-old male patient who was in shock due to severe liver injury after a traffic accident was brought to our emergency room by emergency services. After initial resuscitation, including resuscitative endovascular balloon occlusion of the aorta and blood transfusion, pre- operative contrast-enhanced computed tomography indicated grade IV liver injury with active bleeding from the right hepatic artery. Damage control strategy with packing and subsequent transcatheter arterial embolization was determined to be useful. During treatment, bile leakage was observed. An endoscopic nasobiliary drainage tube was inserted, and the patient was treated conservatively. He was discharged on day 83 of hospitalization. Although using preoperative contrast-enhanced computed tomography before damage control surgery remains controversial, it can provide useful information to determine damage control strategy, including morphological evaluation of the injured area and the presence of active bleeding. Introduction Patients with abdominal trauma and hemodynamic instability who are unresponsive to fluid resuscitation should be treated with open hemostasis without delay . Although packing is the key to open hemostasis in the damage control strategy (DCS), transcatheter arterial embolization (TAE) is effective in the hemostasis of arterial injuries that cannot be controlled by packing . The Western Trauma Association algorithm states that angiography should be considered if hemostasis is achieved by packing; however, the indication is unclear. In contrast, a report stated that a hybrid treatment of packing and TAE required embolization in all cases . Therefore, evaluating damage morphology using computed tomography (CT) may be useful for determining the treatment strategy . In this case, the patient had grade IV liver injury (American Association for the Surgery of Trauma-Organ Injury Scale).
