TraumaCaseReports45(2023)100826
KEYWORDS: contrast-enhanced, packing, tae, performed, day, hemostasis, injury, bleeding, patient, strategy, dcs, embolization, right, liver, useful


abdominal wall to avoid high intra-abdominal pressure and for emergency surgery such as gallbladder ischemia. On hospitalization day 2, hemostasis improved; therefore, a second-look operation was performed to investigate for other intra-abdominal organ injuries, and no intestinal ischemia was found. On day 5 of hospitalization, a third-look operation revealed necrosis of the gall bladder, and cholecystectomy was performed. The abdomen was closed after placing a drainage tube in the abdominal cavity. On day 20, there was >200 mL/day of drainage fluid from the right subdiaphragmatic drain. The direct bilirubin level in the drainage fluid was three times higher than that found in blood because of bile leakage. Therefore, an endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography was performed on day 25. However, contrast material leaked from the right intrahepatic bile duct, and an endoscopic nasobiliary drainage (ENBD) tube was placed at the site. On day 34, as the contrast administered through the ENBD tube leaked from the bile duct into the liver, the ENBD tube remained in situ. On day 44, the right subdiaphragmatic drain was removed. Contrast-enhanced CT performed on day 51 showed no contrast spillage into the abdominal cavity; therefore, the ENBD tube was clamped on day 55. However, abdominal CT on day 58 showed increased fluid retention in the hepatic capsule, and the ENBD was unclamped. On day 70, no leakage was observed of the contrast administered through the ENBD tube into the abdominal cavity, and the ENBD tube was removed. Finally, he was discharged on day 83 of hospitalization. Discussion In this case, the decision to perform gauze packing and TAE was made quickly by prioritizing contrast-enhanced CT, and the patient was saved. Although packing is the mainstay of open hemostasis using DCS, arterial embolization was effective in the hemostasis of arterial injuries uncontrollable by packing . After gauze packing, the pressure in the liver and perihepatic area did not exceed the arterial pressure. Therefore, gauze packing is mainly used for bleeding from hepatic and portal veins. patient should have undergone DCS in the emergency room because he was hemodynamically unstable on arrival. However, we prioritized performing contrast-enhanced CT because the patient became a transient responder after blood transfusion and REBOA. The results of the CT revealed a bleeding site requiring the patient to receive prompt hemostasis. red blood cell: fresh frozen plasma: platelet concentrate at 1:1:1, which is recommended by Advanced Trauma Life Support (ATLS). The reported frequency of
