TraumaCaseReports45(2023)100826
KEYWORDS: contrast-enhanced, packing, tae, performed, day, hemostasis, injury, bleeding, patient, strategy, dcs, embolization, right, liver, useful


requiring the patient to receive prompt hemostasis. red blood cell: fresh frozen plasma: platelet concentrate at 1:1:1, which is recommended by Advanced Trauma Life Support (ATLS). The reported frequency of residual arterial bleeding after packing varies (52 %–71 %) . The Western Trauma Association algorithm states that angiography should be considered if hemostasis is achieved by packing. In contrast, a hybrid treatment of packing and TAE in DCS has been reported, which required embolization in all cases . This report suggests that it is better to perform both DCS and TAE. However, since post-packing angiography selectively contrasts the hepatic artery, it is possible that residual bleeding is detected at a high frequency, the bleeding is not life-threatening, and angiographic findings indicate a bleeding lesion; therefore, embolization may have been performed. Contrast-enhanced CT is useful in assessing the morphology of the injury to determine the treatment strategy . In the ATLS guideline, CT is contraindicated for non-responder patients with unstable hemodynamics, although it may be useful for transient responder patients. In this case, after REBOA insertion and blood transfusions stabilized the vital signs, contrast-enhanced CT helped determine the treatment strategy. Although contrast-enhanced CT before TAE provides knowledge of the vascular run and anatomy for performing IVR , it may delay the start of TAE . CT is useful in trauma treatment strategies ; however, contrast-enhanced CT before TAE or DCS is also beneficial because it allows for a close examination of the injury morphology and vascular run. Conversely, contrast-enhanced CT may delay the procedure, and there is currently no evidence that contrast-enhanced CT should be performed before TAE . A retrospective cohort study suggests that physicians should consider CT as one diagnostic option even when patients' vital signs are unstable . Therefore, we believe that transient responders and some populations of unstable patients may benefit from immediate CT, although further studies are needed. and the patient's vital signs were stable after REBOA insertion and blood transfusion. In an environment where the time to perform CT can be reduced or open hemostasis and angiography can be performed within a short time (such as a hybrid ER) , conducting contrast-enhanced CT before IVR, provides advanced anatomical knowledge, including the morphology of the injured area, presence of active bleeding, and the vascular run, and is useful in determining the indication for TAE after DCS. S. Madokoro et al. T r a u m a
