Chapter
KEYWORDS: water, supply, sanitation, water supply, hygiene, disease, ofthe, cost, percent, supply sanitation, low, promotion, effect, studies, child


very dif- calculations. ferent levels of water consumption,different amounts of time For public water points corresponding to improved water spent collecting water,and as discussed in later sections,differ- supply, hydrogeological and other constraints mean that the ent health benefits. cheapest technology is not feasible in every community.A cost The Global Water Supply and Sanitation Assessment 2000 figure of US$40 per capita is about the middle of the range Reportalsogivesmedianconstructioncostsperpersonserved offered by different technologies (standpost, borehole, and for the various technologies in the three main regions of the dug well) providing this level of service for each continent developing world. These costs are shown in figure 41.1. (figure 41.1) and,therefore,seems reasonable for this level of However,localconditions,suchasthesizeofthecommunityto service,although it can be expected to vary between US$15 and be served and the presence of suitable aquifers, can cause US$65 or more,depending on local conditions.The range of tremendousvariationsintheunitcostofwatersupply. costs reported by individual countries for the Global Water For a community of given size, there are no significant Supply and Sanitation Assessment 2000 Report varied by more returns to scale in the number of house connections made. than an order ofmagnitude. Most of the investment in major works must be made before In calculating the cost-effectiveness of investment in water house connections can be offered,so that the marginal cost of supplies,one must amortize these capital costs over an appro- each connection is only a fraction of the total.For those and priate lifetime. Most major components of an urban water other reasons, water supply is a natural monopoly requiring supply system have a potential lifetime of50 years or more,but “lumpy”investments, which makes the unit costs difficult to a prudent utility would aim to amortize them within about calculate. 20years.A reasonable basis for calculation,for both urban and The cost of house connections may be representative in rural supplies,is to allow an amount of5 percent ofthe capital Latin America and the Caribbean, where they are often pro- cost as an annual straight-line amortization ofthe construction videdinruralareas.InAsiaandAfrica,however,thereported cost ofthe water supply. 772 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Sandy Cairncross and Vivian Valdmanis Construction costs do not represent the full cost of water Cairncross and Kinnear (1992) found that vendor prices supplies. The Global Water Supply and Sanitation Assessment increasedwiththetimerequiredtocollectthewater,showing 2000 Report also gives median reported production costs per thathouseholdspaymoreasthealternativeofcollectingwater cubic meter for urban (house connection) water supplies as themselvesbecomesmoreburdensome.If theamountpaidto US$0.20 for Asia and US$0.30 for Africa
