Chapter
KEYWORDS: water, supply, sanitation, water supply, hygiene, disease, ofthe, cost, percent, supply sanitation, low, promotion, effect, studies, child


Assessment increasedwiththetimerequiredtocollectthewater,showing 2000 Report also gives median reported production costs per thathouseholdspaymoreasthealternativeofcollectingwater cubic meter for urban (house connection) water supplies as themselvesbecomesmoreburdensome.If theamountpaidto US$0.20 for Asia and US$0.30 for Africa and Latin America thevendorforbringingthewaterisdividedbythetimesaved and the Caribbean.Ifwe assume a mean daily water consump- fromcollectingit,theimplicitvaluethatpeopleascribetotheir tion of 100 liters per capita by those with household connec- time can be calculated. Whittington, Mu, and Roche (1990), tions,those figures give annual per capita operation and main- working in rural Kenya, showed in this way that the implicit tenance costs of US$7.30 and US$10.95, respectively, or 8 to value of the time saved was roughly US$0.38 per hour, very 10percent ofthe capital cost ofconstruction.In this chapter,a closetotheaverageimputedwagerateforsuchhouseholdsof generic figure ofUS$10 is used for the annual per capita oper- US$0.35perhour. ation and maintenance cost. Because the poorest urban households typically spend more Reliable figures for the annual maintenance costs for rural than 90 percent oftheir household budget on food,the money watersuppliesarehardertofind,particularlybecausemuchof they spend on water is sacrificed from their food budget themaintenanceiscarriedoutbythevolunteerlaborofvillagers. (Cairncross and Kinnear 1992).The provision of water more Arlosoroff and others (1987),after reviewing a wide range of cheaply thus offers a substantial nutritional benefit to the ruralwatersupplyprojectsinvariouscountries,concludedthat poorest. with a centralized maintenance system,the annual per capita costof maintenanceof ahandpump–basedsupplycanrange Assessing the Time Saved. The cost of water collection in fromUS$0.50toUS$2.00,whilewell-planned,community-level rural areas is usually in time and effort rather than in money maintenancecanbringthatfiguredownaslowasUS$0.05per paid to vendors. The saving in time and drudgery underlies capitaperyear.AnominalannualfigureofUS$1.00percapitais many social benefits. Given the relevance of the time-saving thereforeusedinthischapter.Asimilarfigurecanbeappliedto benefit to water supply policy and the fact that the benefit is urbanpublicstandposts,forwhichvolunteerlaborislessforth- usually uppermost in the mind of the consumer,it is remark- coming but transport costs are lower. This maintenance cost able how few data have been collected on the amounts oftime represents2.5percentoftheconstructioncostarrivedatabove. spent collecting water. Working in 334 study sites in Kenya,Tanzania,and Uganda, Thompson and others (2001) found a mean distance from The Time-Saving Benefit rural unpiped households to their water sources of622 meters. those provided with new water supplies.An exhaustive study of at the tap meant that a water collection journey took almost the economics of rural water supply by the World Bank con- aslong. cluded that “the most obvious benefit is that water is made Feachem and others (1978) found in 10 villages of the available closer to where rural households need it....It is not densely populated lowlands of Lesotho that the installation of clear
