Chapter
KEYWORDS: water, supply, sanitation, water supply, hygiene, disease, ofthe, cost, percent, supply sanitation, low, promotion, effect, studies, child


Feachem and others (1978) found in 10 villages of the available closer to where rural households need it....It is not densely populated lowlands of Lesotho that the installation of clear that rural populations think much about the relationship a water supply had saved the average adult woman 30 minutes more than an hour a day. Lesotho has many springs, so that TheValueofTime. Thesavingintimeanddrudgeryofcarry- time saving is likely to be on the low side compared with Africa ingwaterhomefromthesourceissubstantial,andseveralrea- as a whole. sonsexisttoattributeamoneyvaluetoit.Themostpowerful These time-saving benefits are confirmed by the Multi- argument for the money value of poor women’s time is that Indicator Cluster Surveys of the United Nations Children’s householdsoftenpayotherstodelivertheirwater,orpaytocol- Fund (UNICEF). A recent analysis of the responses in 23 lectfromnearbyratherthanfrommoredistantsourcesthatare African countries has produced a more representative account free of charge. Thompson and others (2001) found that, of of water collection journey times in that continent (G.Keast, urbanEastAfricanhouseholdslackingapipedsupply,thepro- UNICEF, personal communication 2003). Nearly half the portion paying for water had increased from 53 percent to households interviewed (44 percent) required a journey of 80percentover30years.Inasurveyof12sitesin10countries, more than 30 minutes to collect water, implying that the ZaroffandOkun(1984)foundthathouseholdswerespending women in such households spent an hour or more each day in amedianofover20percentoftheirincomeonthepurchaseof water collection.At almost any reasonable level ofservice,most waterfromvendors.Thepriceschargedbyvendorsaretypically ofthat time would be saved by an improved water supply. morethan10times—andcanbeupto50times—thenormal In Asia,an Indian national survey for UNICEF found that tariffchargedbytheformalwatersupplyutility. women spent an average of 2.2 hours per day collecting water Water Supply, Sanitation, and Hygiene Promotion | 773 is generally considered to be well provided with water sources, ulation, advocacy, and provision of supplementary inputs, as meter to their nearest source (Mertens and others 1990). supply are realized to the optimal extent. Valuation ofthe Time-Saving Benefit. Putting a precise figure ity surveillance of drinking water is well known and widely on the money value ofthe time ofpoor people is a tricky task, accepted.Substantial and largely unexploited additional poten- even for the most self-confident economist.In 1987,Churchill tial is present in this role if quality is interpreted in the wider and others took US$0.125 per hour as an illustrative but not sense of quality ofservicerendered by the water supply utility, unrealistic figure.To take the same figure today could hardly be in terms not only of water quality but also of quantity,conti- described as extravagant.Assuming this valuation ofan hour of nuity, coverage, control of sanitary hazards, and cost. Those time—and that a water supply bestows
