Chapter
KEYWORDS: water, supply, sanitation, water supply, hygiene, disease, ofthe, cost, percent, supply sanitation, low, promotion, effect, studies, child


| Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Sandy Cairncross and Vivian Valdmanis Table 41.3 Median Reductions in Diarrhea Morbidity Reported from Different Water Supply and Sanitation Interventions Number of rigorous studies Median reduction in Intervention (object of from which morbidity diarrheal morbidity improvement) reductions could be calculated (percent) Water quality only 4 15 Water quantity only 5 20 Water quantity and quality 2 17 Sanitation only 5 36 Water and sanitation 2 30 Hygiene promotion only 6 33 Source:Esrey and others 1991. needed to extrapolate such evidence to an effect on diarrheal New Guinea that use of a household tap was associated with mortality. 56percent less diarrhea than use of public standposts provid- ing water ofgood quality. Effect on Diarrheal Disease. Esrey and Habicht (1985) and Esrey and others (1991) reviewed the same literature from a Conditions for Health Effect. Providing a public water point shortcomings ofmost studies,they sought to assess the overall vided is of good quality and replaces a traditional source that reductions in diarrheal disease that water supply could be was heavily contaminated with fecal material. By contrast, expected to cause. They applied a number of criteria of epi- moving the same tap from the street corner to the yard pro- demiologicalrigorandtookthemedianreductioninmorbidity duces a substantial reduction in diarrheal morbidity. How is reported from each type ofintervention.Their conclusions are this pattern to be understood? summarized in table 41.3. The first step to an explanation is an understanding that For more than a decade,this review has remained the most most endemic diarrheal disease is transmitted by water-washed authoritative on the subject.However,the small reductions in routes and is not waterborne.Although waterborne epidemics disease that it reports for water supply conceal an important of diarrheal diseases such as cholera and typhoid have been quoted,the following remark by Esrey and others (1991,613) oftransmission seems to be different,particularly in poor com- has usually been overlooked: munities.Five types ofevidence support this view: was piped into or near the home,whereas in those studies and Habicht (1985) and Esrey and others (1991) cite a num- tected wells,tubewells,and standpipes. which water quality improvements have failed to have a sig- nificant effect on diarrheal disease incidence. In the studies in the two reviews by Esrey and Habicht • Food microbiology. Studies of the microbiology of foods in (1985) and Esrey and others (1991) in which the water supply developing countries—particularly the weaning foods fed was provided in
