Chapter
KEYWORDS: water, supply, sanitation, water supply, hygiene, disease, ofthe, cost, percent, supply sanitation, low, promotion, effect, studies, child


• Food microbiology. Studies of the microbiology of foods in (1985) and Esrey and others (1991) in which the water supply developing countries—particularly the weaning foods fed was provided in the home,the median reduction in diarrheal to children in the age group most susceptible to diarrheal disease is 49 percent (from 12 studies),and the reduction from disease—haveshownsuchfoodtobefarmoreheavilycon- the two better studies is 63 percent.Those reductions are sev- taminated with fecal bacteria than is drinking water eral times greater than the overall median impacts in table 41.3. , even when the water has been stored in The 63 percent figure will be used in the burden ofdisease cal- openpots. culations that follow.In the two better studies,the members of • Seasonality of diarrhea. In countries with a seasonal varia- the comparison group were using not an unimproved water tion in temperature,bacterial diarrheas peak in the warmer supply,but a protected water source away from the home.The season,whereas viral diarrheas peak in the winter.This pat- reductions they found are, therefore, in addition to those tern suggests that the bacterial pathogens show environ- resulting from a public standpost level ofservice. mental regrowth at some stage in their transmission route, Some subsequent studies have confirmed this pattern.For which means that they must have a nutritional substrate. example, Bukenya and Nwokolo (1991) showed in Papua Water is,thus,a less likely vehicle than food. Water Supply, Sanitation, and Hygiene Promotion | 777 • Fly-control studies. Trials in rural Asia and Africa have savings offered by this level of service mean that people are shown that fly control can reduce diarrheal disease inci- willing to pay more for them. Moreover, collecting revenue dence by 23 percent (Chavasse and others 1999). from households with private connections is far simpler than • Hand-washing studies. A recent systematic review of the collecting it from public taps because the sanction of discon- effect ofhand washing with soap has shown that this simple nection can be used against households that default on pay- measure is associated with a reduction of43 percent in diar- ment ofthe tariff. rheal disease and 48 percent in diarrheas with the more life- Calculating the burden of disease associated with inade- threatening etiologies (Curtis and Cairncross 2003). quate water supply requires a figure for the reduction associ- ated with the levels of service for which coverage statistics are Those five types of evidence suggest that domestic available. The following burden of
