Chapter
KEYWORDS: water, supply, sanitation, water supply, hygiene, disease, ofthe, cost, percent, supply sanitation, low, promotion, effect, studies, child


any fecally soiled linen immediately. Wagner and Lanoix 1959; Victora and others 1988) found In conclusion,water supplies are likely to have an effect on reductions of 65 percent (relative to a public standpost) and diarrheal disease when they lead to hygiene behavior change— 80 percent (relative to various communal sources, some that is,when the old source ofwater was more than 30 minutes’ polluted),respectively. roundtrip away or when house connections are provided. supply are most likely to be realized in exactly those cases in beneficial effect on a number ofdisease groups other than diar- which the time-saving benefit is greatest—when the old source rhea,although the corresponding burden of disease is far less. ofwater is farthest away,and when the new one is on the plot The median reductions in morbidity from other water-related of the individual household. Though water supplies offering conditions,reported by Esrey and others (1990),are shown in house connections are more expensive, the additional time table 41.4. Table 41.4 Median Reductions in Morbidity Associated with Improved Water Supply and Sanitation: Conditions Other Than Diarrhea, Related Most Closely to Water Supply All studies Better studies Median reduction Median reduction Range Disease Number of studies (percent) Number of studies (percent) (percent) Dracunculiasis 7 76 2 78 75–81 Schistosomiasis 4 73 3 77 59–87 Trachoma 13 50 7 27 0–79 Source:Esrey and others 1990. 778 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Sandy Cairncross and Vivian Valdmanis To be effective in controlling schistosomiasis,the water sup- time,and second,whether they are adequately maintained. ply must be so convenient as to discourage water contact for ...Pit latrines would,from the viewpoint ofhealth rather laundry and bathing.It is unlikely that this level ofconvenience than convenience,approximate the same rating as a water- can be achieved without house connections. borne sewerage system.(Feachem and others 1983,49–50) Evidence suggests that water availability and hygiene can produce substantial reductions in trachoma (Emerson and Thegroupthereforejudgeditmostappropriatenottodis- others 2000). Because the reductions come from hygiene tinguishbetweensanitationtechnologiesandtoconsiderallof improvements such as hand and face washing, they are also them as providing adequate access to sanitation as long as likely to be greatest with house connections.Dracunculiasis is they were private or shared (but not public) and hygienically affected by water quality,but the simplest improved water sup- separatedhumanexcretafromhumancontact.Thisdefinition ply is adequate to prevent transmission. was followed in the Global Water Supply and Sanitation Conflicting evidence exists about whether water supply or Assessment 2000 Report, which accepted only sewerage,septic improved
