Chapter
KEYWORDS: water, supply, sanitation, water supply, hygiene, disease, ofthe, cost, percent, supply sanitation, low, promotion, effect, studies, child


the facili- studies of ascariasis and three of the five positive studies of tieswerefullyandappropriatelyused(especiallybyyoungchil- hookworm involved sanitation alone. It is also likely that the dren)andmaintained.Asystematicreviewoftheeffectofsan- effect ofexcreta disposal on Trichuris infection is similar to that itation on diarrheal disease is urgently required. Meanwhile, on ascariasis . andonbalance,Esreyandothers’medianreductionof36per- Much emphasis has been placed in recent years on cent in diarrhea incidence is the most authoritative estimate chemotherapy as a control intervention for intestinal available. helminths, particularly the chemotherapy of schoolchildren. However, that option is not always sustainable because the Interaction with Water Supply. The results ofEsrey and oth- children are quickly reinfected by the eggs and larvae that ers’(1991) review suggest that the effect of water supply and remain in the environment. Sanitation, particularly school sanitation combined is no greater than that of either on its sanitation,hasbeenadoptedbythemajorinternationaldonor Water Supply, Sanitation, and Hygiene Promotion | 783 agencies as an integral component of the FRESH (Focusing • a description ofthe target population (in terms oftheir level ResourcesonEffectiveSchoolHealth)frameworktoensureits of education and other factors) adequate to permit a judg- sustainability. ment ofthe relevance ofthe study to other contexts. A study in Bangladesh (Mascie-Taylor and others 1999) sug- gested that chemotherapy was more cost-effective (though less Only three studies were found to meet all four criteria.One effective) as a helminth control intervention than a health edu- (Stanton and Clemens 1987) dealt with environmental hygiene cation program that included the promotion of sanitation. promotion and raises some doubts—although the hygiene intensive and, therefore, expensive; it involved the constant both were significantly worse than they had been before the deployment of six health educators and a supervisor in each intervention. study area of only 550 households, resulting in a cost of A subsequent review of 31 studies (Cave and Curtis 1999) Tk 1600 (US$30) per household, compared with Tk 330 found 5 more studies that could be considered methodologi- (US$6) per year for chemotherapy. That cost compares with cally sound,but none showed a clear effect on behavior.Of a the total cost ofUS$8 per family for WaterAid’s successful “100 further 11 studies of “reasonable” rigor, only two showed a percent sanitation”approach in rural Bangladesh . major effect on behavior. Whereas the promotion of sanitation is a one-time cost, the Shortcomings also exist in the cost data.Many costings are cost of chemotherapy is a recurrent annual expenditure. based on budget forecasts and not on real expenditures.Even Allowing for such a
