Chapter
KEYWORDS: water, supply, sanitation, water supply, hygiene, disease, ofthe, cost, percent, supply sanitation, low, promotion, effect, studies, child


cap- the morbidity and mortality averted not only during the imple- ita is,therefore,taken because it is roughly the midpoint ofthe mentation ofthe intervention,but also for a number ofyears— range ofrecent estimates. perhaps five—thereafter. Effect on Diarrhea Costs Esrey and others (1991) found only six studies of the effect of Cases in which the costs as well as the effectiveness of hygiene hygiene promotion interventions on diarrhea morbidity,with a promotion programs have been documented objectively are median reduction of 33 percent. A subsequent review by few indeed.In the absence ofsuitable data,Varley,Tarvid,and Huttly,Morriss,and Pisani (1997) arrived at a similar result— Chao (1998) calculated a costing for a typical program from a median reduction of35 percent. first principles,arriving at a cost ofUS$3 (range US$2 to US$3) The interventions promoting the single hygiene practice of per household per year,or US$0.60 per capita. washing one’s hands with soap tended to achieve greater reduc- Oneofthefewcasesinwhichdataexistisaprograminurban tions in disease than those that promoted several different BurkinaFasodescribedbyBorghiandothers(2002).Theirdata behaviors.That finding was confirmed by a systematic review showthatthetotalcosttotheproviderofthethree-yearinter- of the literature on hand washing (Curtis and Cairncross ventionwasUS$0.65percapita,orUS$4.54perseven-person 2003), which concluded that hand washing with soap—and household,afterdeductingthecostoftheinternationalresearch interventions to promote it—could reduce diarrhea morbidity component.Of thistotal,63percentiscomposedof adminis- by 43 percent and life-threatening diarrhea by 48 percent. trationandundifferentiatedstart-upcostsoftheproject.Most Because the effect of diarrhea prevention in DALYs is mainly of the remaining costs were accounted for in roughly equal attributable to the prevention ofdiarrhea deaths,the higher of measurebyhouse-to-housevisits,discussionsinhealthcenters, these two figures is more appropriate for calculating the effect hygienelessonsinschools,andstreettheaterpresentations. ofhygiene promotion on the burden ofdisease. Additional costs were incurred by the 18.5 percent ofhouse- It is not surprising that interventions advocating more holds that complied,practicing improved hygiene as a result of behavior changes should have less effect, because numerous the program, amounting to US$8 per household per year. messages dilute one another in the minds of the target audi- Morethan 90 percent ofthat sum was the cost ofsoap for hand ence. Because some of the interventions in the systematic washing. review were planned without an adequate prior program of However,on the basis ofthe observed increase in prevalence formative research,it is possible that they could have had a still of hand washing with soap,the intervention was estimated to greater effect ifthey were better conceived. have averted sufficient diarrhea morbidity and mortality to save US$2.80 per household per year (US$15 per compliant Effect on Respiratory Infections household per year) in direct costs ofmedical care
