Chapter
KEYWORDS: water, supply, sanitation, water supply, hygiene, disease, ofthe, cost, percent, supply sanitation, low, promotion, effect, studies, child


conceived. have averted sufficient diarrhea morbidity and mortality to save US$2.80 per household per year (US$15 per compliant Effect on Respiratory Infections household per year) in direct costs ofmedical care and indirect costs attributable to lost productivity.Of this total,93 percent Reasons exist to believe that hand washing with soap could be represented the lost future productivity associated with the a cost-effective intervention not only against diarrheal diseases, deaths ofyoung children. but also for the prevention of acute respiratory infections Waterkeyn (2003) provides an example from rural (ARIs). The intervention is plausible, given what is known Zimbabwe. In the two districts in which the Community about the transmission routes of ARIs, and there is also Water Supply, Sanitation, and Hygiene Promotion | 785 epidemiological evidence,in that all six published studies ofthe Table 41.7 Assumed Reductions in Diarrhea Attributable to effect of hand washing on ARIs show a significant reduction Water Supply, Sanitation, and Hygiene Promotion . Reduction in Corresponding These two disease groups are the most important causes of Intervention diarrhea (percent) relative risk child mortality worldwide, and respiratory infections also Water supply cause significant adult mortality,for which no alternative pre- ventive intervention is yet available,field-tested,and ready for Public source 17 1.20 implementation.A randomized,controlled trial ofthe efficacy Additional, for house 63 2.70 connection of hand-washing promotion on an ARI outcome is an urgent priority for future research. Excreta disposal 36 1.56 Hygiene promotion 48 1.92 Source: Authors. Interactions with Water Supply and Sanitation It can be argued that there is little point in encouraging people to wash their hands ifthey do not have access to water or to use These assumptions can be compared as follows with the a latrine ifthey do not have one. assumptions underlying a previous calculation of the global Theargumenthasonlylimitedvaliditywheresanitationis burden of disease from water, sanitation, and hygiene (Prüss concerned;animportantroleforanyhygienepromotionisto and others 2002;WHO 2002).For that calculation,the follow- promote sanitation itself.With regard to water,in the studies ing seven scenarios were considered: reviewed by Curtis and Cairncross (2003), the reductions in VI. No improved water supply or basic sanitation disease achieved by hand washing in settings with indoor Va. Basic sanitation only pipedwatersupplywerenotsignificantlydifferentfromthose Vb. Improved water supply only achievedelsewhere.Giventhattherationaleisambivalentand IV. Improved water supply and basic sanitation theevidenceinconclusive,thesimplestplausibleassumptionis III. Improved water supply and basic sanitation plus house that the effects of water supply, sanitation, and hygiene pro- connection water supply,or improved hygiene or water motion on diarrhea are independent and
