Chapter
KEYWORDS: water, supply, sanitation, water supply, hygiene, disease, ofthe, cost, percent, supply sanitation, low, promotion, effect, studies, child


water supply and basic sanitation plus house that the effects of water supply, sanitation, and hygiene pro- connection water supply,or improved hygiene or water motion on diarrhea are independent and additive to one disinfected at point ofuse another. II. “Regulated” water supply (presumably house connec- tion) and full sanitation I. Ideal situation, corresponding to absence of disease EFFECT ON BURDEN OF DISEASE transmission through water,sanitation,and hygiene. The effect ofwater supply,sanitation,and hygiene on the global Scenario II is essentially the position prevailing in industri- burden ofdisease can now be estimated,in two stages.First,the al countries. Leaving out scenarios I and III, which apply to evidence presented in this chapter is used to arrive at the reduc- only a small proportion of the population,the following sce- tions in diarrhea that are expected to result from the various narios are broadly equivalent to the categories considered combinations and levels ofservice and that are assumed for the earlier in this chapter: calculation.Then,these figures are applied to the coverage lev- els for individual countries and the burden ofdiarrheal disease VI. No improved water or sanitation prevailing in the different regions ofthe world.Because such a Va. Sanitation only calculation has been done before by Prüss and others (2002) Vb. Improved water supply (public source) from rather different premises,it was desirable to examine the IV. Both improved water supply and sanitation comparability ofthe results. II. House connection water supply,and sanitation. In the Prüss model,therelativerisksassociatedwithtransi- Assumptions: Reductions in Diarrheal Disease tionfromscenariosVaandVbtoVIaretakenas1.26and1.60, water supply,sanitation,and hygiene promotion are considered table41.7.However,Prüssandothers(2002)assumeequalrisks to be associated,under typical conditions,with the reductions in scenarios IV andVa,whereas a relative risk of 1.20 follows in diarrheal disease morbidity shown in table 41.7. These from the assumption in this chapter that the effects of water reductions are considered to be independent of one another, supply and sanitation are independent. The Prüss model so that the relative risks for several interventions can be assumes a relative risk of 1.54 between scenarios III and IV, multiplied. corresponding to the diarrhea reduction of 35 percent from 786 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Sandy Cairncross and Vivian Valdmanis hygiene promotion found by Huttly, Morriss, and Pisani To allow for the uncertainty in their assumptions,Prüss and (1997). Scenario III is essentially a theoretical construct, and others (2002) calculated the burden of disease attributable to between it and scenario II a further relative risk of 1.8 is water supply, sanitation, and hygiene
