Chapter
KEYWORDS: water, supply, sanitation, water supply, hygiene, disease, ofthe, cost, percent, supply sanitation, low, promotion, effect, studies, child


a theoretical construct, and others (2002) calculated the burden of disease attributable to between it and scenario II a further relative risk of 1.8 is water supply, sanitation, and hygiene using two approaches. assumed (in what Prüss and others term their realistic The realistic approach used the assumptions described above approach),onthebasisofsomerecenttrialsofhomedisinfec- and shown in figure 41.3.The minimal approach assumed no tionofwater,givingatotalof2.76betweenscenariosIVandII. difference in risk between scenarios II and III.Given the ideal The latter figure is close to the corresponding value of 2.70 and hypothetical nature ofscenario I and the low probability of implied by the assumptions made here, for different reasons. intensive hygiene promotion being funded for a population ScenarioI,likescenarioIII,isincludednotbecauseitispreva- that already benefits from high levels ofwater supply and san- lent in reality, but to illustrate a point. Its equivalent would itation provision,we consider the model on the right offigure be the generalized and effective implementation of a well- 41.3 as optimistic and prefer to take for our more realistic conceived hygiene promotion intervention. Because such approach the less ambitious baseline ofhouse connections and hygiene promotion has hardly ever been provided to whole full sanitation, which approximates the current position in populations,itissimilarlyhypothetical.Fromthatperspective, most of Western Europe and North America. This approach thecorrespondingrelativerisksof2.5(Prüssandothers 2002) responds to recent calls for “baselines and counterfactuals and1.92(table41.7)areofasimilarorderofmagnitude. which should include alternative,operationalizable policy/pro- The similarity of the two sets of assumptions, based on gram options (including the status quo)”(Ezzati 2003,458).It rather different premises,is illustrated in figure 41.3. also has the advantage of providing an estimate of burden of Prüss and others‘ Present model model VI: No water No water supply or supply or sanitation sanitation 1.60 1.26 1.56 1.20 Va: Basic Vb: Improved Basic Improved sanitation water supply sanitation water supply 1.00 1.20 IV: Improved water Improved and water and basic basic sanitation sanitation 1.54 III: Piped water supply or other 2.76 2.70 improvement (1.80) II: House House connection and connection and sanitation sanitation 2.50 (1.92) I: Ideal—no House connection, disease sanitation, and transmission hygiene promotion Source: Authors and Prüss and others 2002. Note: The numbers show relative risk of diarrhea in upper relative to lower boxes. Relative risks in parentheses are set to 1.0 for the minimal version of the Prüss model and for the realistic version of the present model. Figure 41.3 Comparison of Assumptions Made by Prüss and others (2002) and in this chapter. Water Supply, Sanitation, and Hygiene Promotion | 787 disease
