Empty Sella
KEYWORDS: sella, pituitary, patients, primary, hypertension, pes, primary sella, intracranial, pubmed, secondary, csf, syndrome, intracranial hypertension, associated, sellar


ABSTRACT Empty sella is a radiological finding of a flattened pituitary in a sellar space filled with cerebrospinal fluid. It may be primary or secondary consequent to various processes causing injury and shrinkage of the pituitary gland (postpartum hemorrhage, pituitary surgery, irradiation, apoplexy, infection, head trauma, hypophysitis, etc.). The mechanisms involved in the pathogenesis of the so called “primary empty sella” may range from continuously or intermittently increased intracranial pressure due to idiopathic benign intracranial hypertension, obesity, arterial hypertension, or multiple pregnancies in female patients with accompanying insufficiency of the sellar diaphragm and changes in pituitary gland volume (hyperplasia during pregnancy, lactation, menopause etc.). Primary empty sella can be an incidental radiological finding in an asymptomatic patient with preserved pituitary function. In symptomatic patients with the so called “empty sella syndrome” (headache, visual disturbances, and hormonal dysfunction), the radiological finding of an empty sella is important in the differential diagnosis of other sellar lesions. Hypopituitarism, partial or complete, and hyperprolactinemia are not uncommon in these patients. The treatment of hypopituitarism and hyperprolactinemia is advocated in all patients with confirmatory results. In patients with the secondary empty sella, hypopituitarism is more common and more readily recognized due to damage caused by surgery, radiation therapy, or various pathological causes. Rarely, an empty sella can be associated with hormonal hypersecretion from an “invisible” micro adenoma producing prolactin, growth hormone (acromegaly), or ACTH (Cushing’s disease). A wide range of radiological findings in patients with secondary and primary empty sella coupled with clinical data (important hints from the history and data on endocrine function) are presented for further illustration of this topic. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . HISTORY The term ‘empty sella’ was first used by Bush in 1951 ( 1 ) to describe a peculiar anatomical condition, observed in 40 of 788 human cadavers, particularly females, characterized by a sella turcica with an incomplete diaphragm sellae that forms only a small peripheral rim, with a pituitary gland not absent, but flattened in such a manner as to form a thin layer of tissue at the bottom of the sella turcica. Kaufman ( 2 ), in 1968, speculated that ‘…empty sella is a distinct anatomical and radiographic entity, function of an incompleteness of the diaphragma sellae and of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) pressure, normal or elevated’. The role of the normal fluctuations of
