Empty Sella
KEYWORDS: sella, pituitary, patients, primary, hypertension, pes, primary sella, intracranial, pubmed, secondary, csf, syndrome, intracranial hypertension, associated, sellar


distinct anatomical and radiographic entity, function of an incompleteness of the diaphragma sellae and of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) pressure, normal or elevated’. The role of the normal fluctuations of CSF pressures and the effect of a superimposed prolonged increase in CSF pressure were related to the anatomic changes involving the bony wall of the empty sella. DEFINITION, ETIOLOGY, AND PREVALENCE OF EMPTY SELLA Empty sella is defined as herniation of subarachnoid space into the sella turcica (arachnoidocele). It is a term for the radiological finding of “empty sellar space” on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computerized tomography (CT) with a flattened pituitary and elongated stalk. It can be partial if less than 50% of sellar space is filled with cerebro-spinal fluid (CSF), or complete if CSF fills more than 50% of space in the sella and gland thickness is less than 2mm ( 3 , 4 ). Regarding its etiology, it can be primary if there is no pathological process in the sellar region preceding the pituitary damage or secondary if it is consequent to a specific pathological process. Primary empty sella (PES) can be an incidental finding or may arise during imaging for headache, endocrine disorders, neurological symptoms, visual disturbances, abnormal sella turcica radiograph, and other reasons. Primary empty sella (PES) can be caused by intracranial hypertension and/or insufficiency of the sellar diaphragm in subjects with no previous history of pituitary disease. Insufficiency of the sellar diaphragm, a deflection of dura matter separating the suprasellar cistern from the pituitary fossa, allows unobstructed pulsatile movements of CSF from chiasmatic cistern causing flattening of the pituitary to the sellar floor. In extreme cases bone erosion of the sellar floor and CSF leak (rhinorrhea) may occur, increasing the risk of meningitis. Partial or complete absence of the sellar diaphragm has been demonstrated in patients with PES. Intracranial pressure can be intermittently increased due to obesity, sleep apnea, arterial hypertension, pregnancy, and labor. Intracranial hypertension may be idiopathic or associated with other intracranial processes such as tumors, venous thrombosis, infections, or malformations. Idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH) or “pseudo-tumor cerebri” is a rare condition affecting 1 in 100,000 persons. It can be due to impaired CSF absorption, increased CSF secretion, and/or increased capillary permeability ( 5 ). Impaired CSF dynamics and absorption have been found in up to 77% and 84% of patients with PES, respectively ( 6 ), The prevalence of PES
