Empty Sella
KEYWORDS: sella, pituitary, patients, primary, hypertension, pes, primary sella, intracranial, pubmed, secondary, csf, syndrome, intracranial hypertension, associated, sellar


permeability ( 5 ). Impaired CSF dynamics and absorption have been found in up to 77% and 84% of patients with PES, respectively ( 6 ), The prevalence of PES is very high in patients with IIH ranging from 70-94% ( 4 ). Changes in the pituitary gland volume may also be involved in the pathogenesis of empty sella syndrome including hyperplasia during pregnancy and lactation and pituitary involution after menopause accounting for the significantly higher prevalence of this condition in female patients (female to male ratio 5:1). Factors involved in the pathogenesis of primary empty sella are shown in Figure 1 . Secondary empty sella is more common and is related to various pathological processes of the sellar region. Among many causes, pituitary tumor shrinkage occurring after medical treatment, surgery, radiotherapy, and apoplexy of a pituitary adenoma are frequent causes of secondary empty sella. Likewise, postpartum pituitary necrosis, pituitary infection, hypophysitis, and traumatic brain injury may lead to pituitary atrophy. The diagnosis of secondary empty sella is more difficult if there is no known underlying pathology involving the pituitary gland. In these cases, the sella is normal in size, and the function of the flattened pituitary gland may or may not be compromised. Such is the case in congenital causes of hypopituitarism both acquired and genetic, presenting with a hypoplastic pituitary gland and ectopic posterior lobe ( 7 ). Large intracranial tumors such as slow-growing meningiomas can also cause increased intracranial pressure and secondary empty sella in a significant number of patients. Pituitary MRI images of patients with secondary and primary empty sella are presented in the section dedicated to radiological appearance of an empty sella ( Fig. 2 - 6 ). Associated risk factors for primary and secondary empty sella are shown in Table 1 . The reported prevalence of empty sella depends on techniques used for detection. In autopsy studies empty sella has been found in up to 5.5-12% cases ( 1 , 2 ), On imaging the overall incidence has been estimated at 12% ( 4 ). The prevalence of PES is very high in patients with IIH ( 8 ) Table 1. Associated Risk Factors for Primary and Secondary Empty Sella View in own window Primary Empty Sella (PES) Secondary Empty Sella (SES) Female sex Multiple pregnancies Obesity and sleep apnea Arterial hypertension Benign intracranial hypertension Medical therapy Pituitary surgery Irradiation Pituitary apoplexy Sheehan’s syndrome
