Empty Sella
KEYWORDS: sella, pituitary, patients, primary, hypertension, pes, primary sella, intracranial, pubmed, secondary, csf, syndrome, intracranial hypertension, associated, sellar


Primary Empty Sella (PES) Secondary Empty Sella (SES) Female sex Multiple pregnancies Obesity and sleep apnea Arterial hypertension Benign intracranial hypertension Medical therapy Pituitary surgery Irradiation Pituitary apoplexy Sheehan’s syndrome Traumatic brain injury Congenital hypopituitarism Figure 1. Factors involved in pathogenesis of primary empty sella include the upper-sellar factors, incompetence or incomplete formation of the sellar diaphragm, and pituitary factors associated with the variation in the pituitary volume. Modified from Bioscientifica Ltd., Chiloiro S et al, European Journal of Endocrinology (2017) 177, R275–R285. RADIOLOGICAL APPEARANCE OF EMPTY SELLA Very commonly an empty sella is incidentally discovered during MRI or CT imaging or during evaluation for headache, endocrine, neurological or visual disturbances. Less commonly it is observed after additional imaging for abnormal sella turcica radiographs. Chronic intracranial hypertension can lead to sellar remodeling and enlargement with thinning of the sellar floor and rarely rhinorrhea. On typical presentation CSF filling is in continuity with overlying subarachnoid spaces and the residual pituitary gland is flattened against the sellar floor of an enlarged bony sella with pituitary volume usually less than 611.21 mm 3 ( 9 ). The differential diagnosis with cystic lesions and congenital pituitary abnormalities may pose a challenge. The stalk is usually thinned and located in the midline. Asymmetry is a frequent sign of the secondary empty sella. In rare cases the chiasm can herniate into the sella in cases of both primary and secondary etiology. Indirect signs of intracranial hypertension may also be present such as flattening of the posterior sclera, prominent subarachnoid spaces along the optic nerves, vertical tortuosity of the optic nerve sheath complex, and increased width of the optic nerve sheaths ( 10 ). Sagittal and coronal T1-weighted (T1W) contrast enhanced images and coronal T2-weighted (T2W) images are strongly indicated for MR studies because they show CSF within the sella. On FLAIR sequences the intrasellar fluid completely suppresses and it presents without restriction in DWI sequences. After contrast T1W images show normal enhancement of residual pituitary gland and the stalk in PES in contrast to scaring and distortion in SES. In patients with congenital hypopituitarism an ectopic posterior pituitary, stalk duplication or absence may be present in combination with other midline defects (agenesis of corpus callosum, supraoptic dysplasia, etc.) ( 7 ). Figures 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 represent various MRI findings of patients with secondary empty sella due to postpartum hemorrhage (Sheehan’s syndrome Fig.
