Empty Sella
KEYWORDS: sella, pituitary, patients, primary, hypertension, pes, primary sella, intracranial, pubmed, secondary, csf, syndrome, intracranial hypertension, associated, sellar


dysplasia, etc.) ( 7 ). Figures 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 represent various MRI findings of patients with secondary empty sella due to postpartum hemorrhage (Sheehan’s syndrome Fig. 2 ), lymphocytic hypophysitis ( Fig. 3 ), shrinkage of a macroprolactinoma after successful treatment with cabergoline ( Fig.4 ), and congenital hypopituitarism with empty sella ( Fig.5 ) Figure 2. Sagittal T1W images of two patients with empty sella and Sheehan’s syndrome Left Panel (sagittal T1W image without contrast) and Right (sagittal T1W image after contrast enhancement) represent the MRI appearance of empty sella in two patients with Sheehan’s syndrome. Both patients presented with hyponatremic coma due to unrecognized panhypopituitarism and infection 3 and 20 years after delivery complicated by postpartum hemorrhage. Figure 3. Contrast enhanced coronal and sagittal T1W images of lymphocytic hypophysitis spontaneous evolution from the presentation (panel A, B), after 4 (panel C) and 10 years (panel D) of follow-up resulting in secondary empty sella. Figure 4. Coronal T1W images demonstrating a pituitary tumor (macroprolactinoma) shrinkage in a patient treated with the dopamine agonist cabergoline for 10 years. The patient presented with hyperprolactinemia causing galactorrhea-amenorrhea, secondary adrenal insufficiency and central hypothyroidism. Hyperprolactinemia and adrenal insufficiency completely recovered during follow up. Figure 5. Sagittal T1W showing small pituitary gland found at the bottom of sella, thin stalk and ectopic posterior lobe in a young adult with isolated childhood-onset growth hormone deficiency (congenital). Figure 6. Sagittal T1W images of pituitary stalk pressed against the dorsum sellae causing mild hyperprolactinemia in a patient with primary empty sella. PRIMARY EMPTY SELLA (PES) AND EMPTY SELLA SYNDROME Epidemiologically, this is associated with female sex (female to male ratio 5:1), multiple pregnancies, obesity, arterial hypertension, and middle age. It may present with headaches, endocrine dysfunction, and visual disturbances due to pressure on the neighboring structures. A typical clinical picture consists of headache and obesity. Women in the reproductive age may be affected by menstrual irregularities, galactorrhea, and sterility. Man can develop gynecomastia and sexual disturbances. Primary empty sella due to the syndrome of increased intracranial pressure can also be associated with symptoms of intracranial hypertension. Pathogenesis of Primary Empty Sella (PES) Pregnancy may trigger the onset of PES. It is associated with pituitary hyperplasia and CSF hypertension especially in multiple pregnancies. PES has also been associated with CSF hypertension related to obesity and arterial hypertension. In the largest study with 175 patients,
