Empty Sella
KEYWORDS: sella, pituitary, patients, primary, hypertension, pes, primary sella, intracranial, pubmed, secondary, csf, syndrome, intracranial hypertension, associated, sellar


pituitary hyperplasia and CSF hypertension especially in multiple pregnancies. PES has also been associated with CSF hypertension related to obesity and arterial hypertension. In the largest study with 175 patients, multiple pregnancies were reported in 58.3% women with PES, while obesity and arterial hypertension were recorded in 49.5% and 27.3% of patients ( 10 ). In patients with benign intracranial hypertension, empty sella is a common finding ( 8 , 11 ). Endocrine Dysfunction in PES Hyperprolactinemia, usually mild (less than 50 ng/ml), is present in approximately 10% of patients ( 10 ). It is often due to increased pressure of the CSF on the pituitary stalk and diminished dopamine inhibitory effect. Prolactin dynamics in PES may be influenced by gonadal status, intracranial pressure, neurotransmitters, and stalk integrity. Rarely, pituitary microadenomas causing acromegaly and Cushing’s disease may be associated with empty sella. In the recent study by Himes et al. empty sella was associated with an increased rate of MRI negative Cushing’s disease ( 12 ). Pituitary compression causing a relative reduction in the volume of the pituitary for imaging is a plausible cause for not detecting the tumor mass with MRI ( 12 ). The presence of ES was associated with lower preoperative prolactin and nadir GH responses to OGTT in patients with acromegaly ( 13 ) Functional imaging, if available may identify occult pituitary tumors as therapeutic targets in such settings. The prevalence of hypopituitarism in patients with PES is variable. In a study by Guitelman et al. it was found in 28% of patients ( 11 ). Panhypopituitarism was present in 40% of these patients, while partial or isolated hormone deficiencies were diagnosed in 60% of hypopituitary patients ( 11 ). The most prevalent pituitary deficiency was growth hormone deficiency. In a pooled meta-analysis, which included four studies, the frequency of hypopituitarism was 52% ( 14 ). Multiple pituitary hormone deficiencies were present in 30%, isolated in 21% of patients with PES. Growth hormone and gonadotropins were the most common isolated insufficiencies ( 14 ). Significant correlation was reported between IGF-1 values and pituitary volume measurements ( 15 ). In a retrospective single-center study of 765 patients by Ekhzaimy et al. 79% of PES was diagnosed incidentally on MRI. The majority of patients were evaluated by general practitioners with suboptimal hormonal evaluation while only 20% were referred to endocrinologists for hormonal evaluation ( 16 ). A multicenter
