Empty Sella
KEYWORDS: sella, pituitary, patients, primary, hypertension, pes, primary sella, intracranial, pubmed, secondary, csf, syndrome, intracranial hypertension, associated, sellar


on MRI. The majority of patients were evaluated by general practitioners with suboptimal hormonal evaluation while only 20% were referred to endocrinologists for hormonal evaluation ( 16 ). A multicenter retrospective study from Italy, detected hormonal alterations in 29% of incidental PES suggesting the need for careful initial evaluation since on follow-up hormonal deterioration was uncommon (3%) ( 17 ). Hypopituitarism was associated with male sex ( 17 , 18 ) and radiological finding of complete PES ( 18 ). Hormonal assessment is advocated in all patients with ES. In case of borderline results or suspected isolated or partial insufficiency stimulatory tests are recommended if clinically relevant for hormone replacement. Other symptoms in patients with ES include headache and visual and neurological disturbances. In patients with intracranial hypertension these symptoms are more common. Neurological and Ophthalmic Dysfunction in PES Headache is present in approximately 80% ( 3 , 6 ). In 20% of patients it may be accompanied by visual disturbances, even papilledema in intracranial hypertension ( 3 , 6 ). Visual disturbances including worsening of visual acuity, blurred vision, diplopia, defects of oculomotor nerve, and optical neuritis were also reported in patients with PES. In case of benign intracranial hypertension ophthalmic echography and computerized visual field with evoked potentials should be performed in consultation with ophthalmologists. Study by Yilmaz et al. evaluated retinal optic nerve fiber thickness by optic coherence tomography in asymptomatic patients with empty sella and healthy controls ( 19 ). Reduced values in asymptomatic patients provide valuable data for monitoring of these patients ( 19 ). In case of chiasmal herniation into the empty sella with acute visual deterioration, new neurosurgical techniques of chiasmal transsphenoidal elevation are available ( 20 ). Neurological disturbances including dizziness, syncope, cranial nerve disorders, convulsions, and depression were reported in approximately 40% of patients with PES ( 3 , 6 ). Rhinorrhea increases the risk of meningitis and surgery involving osseous remodeling techniques ( 21 ). An association of PES with periventricular white matter hyperintensities, and enlarged perivascular spaces, common features of cerebral small vessel disease, were reported confirming the previous clinical observation and possible common underlying mechanism ( 22 ). TREATMENT In patients with increased idiopathic intracranial pressure osmotic diuretics or acetazolamide ( Diamox ) are advocated. Weight loss may be helpful in obese and overweight patients especially if accompanied by sleep apnea. Neurosurgical techniques may be indicated for rhinorrhea
