Alteplase for treating acute ischaemic stroke
KEYWORDS: alteplase, stroke, treatment, manufacturer, committee, patients, acute, ischaemic stroke, ischaemic, hour, acute ischaemic, hours, death, window, model


alteplase) for treating acute ischaemic stroke in adults within 4.5 hours of symptom onset, and whether alteplase treatment was a cost-effective use of NHS resources. 3.2 The manufacturer carried out a systematic literature search, which was based on a previously published Cochrane review ('Thrombolysis for acute ischaemic stroke'), but restricted the search to randomised controlled trials of alteplase. For the 0- to 3-hour treatment window, the manufacturer identified no trials other than those included in NICE's previous technology appraisal guidance on alteplase for the treatment of ischaemic stroke from 2007. The trials included NINDS (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) 1 and 2, ATLANTIS ('Thrombolysis for acute noninterventional therapy in ischaemic stroke') A and B, and ECASS (the 'European Cooperative Acute Stroke Study') 2. All these trials were multicentre, double-blinded, placebo-controlled randomised controlled trials of alteplase administered at its licensed dose of 0.9 mg/kg. Treatment with alteplase was administered within 3 hours (NINDS 1 and 2), 5 hours (ATLANTIS B) or 6 hours (ATLANTIS A, ECASS 2) of onset of stroke symptoms. Patients were followed up for outcomes for 90 days. The NINDS and ATLANTIS trials were conducted in North America and the ECASS trial in multiple sites in Europe (including the UK), Australia and New Zealand. 3.3 The clinical-effectiveness evidence in the manufacturer's submission focused on the extended 3- to 4.5-hour treatment window for which the only directly relevant trial identified by the manufacturer was ECASS 3. Other trials with data indirectly relevant to this treatment window were ATLANTIS A and B and ECASS 2, from which subgroup data specifically for the 3- to 4.5-hour window were used by the manufacturer in sensitivity analyses. The manufacturer noted that this involved stratifying data into subgroups that had not been specified before randomisation. The manufacturer also identified the third International Alteplase for treating acute ischaemic stroke (TA264) Stroke Trial (IST-3), a randomised open-label blinded endpoint trial in which alteplase was administered within 6 hours of symptom onset. However, the manufacturer commented that this trial was not placebo controlled and therefore did not meet its trial selection criteria, and that no published results were available at the time of submission. 3.4 ECASS 3 was a placebo-controlled multicentre trial carried out across 130 sites in 19 European countries. Of the 821 patients 22 were from the UK. Patients were eligible for inclusion if aged between 18 and 80 years, diagnosed with acute
