Alteplase for treating acute ischaemic stroke
KEYWORDS: alteplase, stroke, treatment, manufacturer, committee, patients, acute, ischaemic stroke, ischaemic, hour, acute ischaemic, hours, death, window, model


dead. The independent state was defined by a modified Rankin scale score of 0 to 2 and the dependent state by a modified Rankin scale score of 3 to 5. The model had 3 time phases: from 0 to 6 months when the model assumed the treatment effect of alteplase was complete at 90 days and maintained at 6 months; from 6 to 12 months when the model assumed no further treatment effect; and beyond 12 months when the model also assumed no further treatment effect from alteplase. However, beyond 12 months Alteplase for treating acute ischaemic stroke (TA264) the model assumed that people in the dependent or independent states could have a recurrent stroke. The model also assumed that people in the dependent state at 12 months and beyond do not move to an independent state, and that people in the independent state at 12 months and beyond do not move to a dependent state unless they survive a recurrent stroke. The model assumed a lifetime horizon with a cycle length of 6 months for the first 12 months, followed by cycles of 12 months thereafter. 3.13 The manufacturer chose a population for the model based on SITS-MOST ('Safe implementation of thrombolysis in stroke-monitoring study'), a European observational study of patients receiving alteplase. The manufacturer considered that this study population represented the mean age (68 years) and gender distribution (39.8% female) of patients who would receive alteplase in clinical practice in England and Wales. 3.14 For the first phase (0 to 6 months) of the manufacturer's economic model, the size of the effect of treatment with alteplase was informed by the manufacturer's meta-analyses for the 3 treatment windows as described in section 3.8. For the standard treatment arm, the proportion of people in each health state (39.53% independent, 32.56% dependent and 27.91% dead) was informed by the Lothian stroke registry, a registry in Edinburgh, Scotland, of 1,779 inpatients with suspected or confirmed stroke from 1989 to 2000. The manufacturer also provided an alternative distribution of the proportion of people who received standard treatment in each health state from the placebo arm of the ECASS 3 trial at 90 days. This alternative distribution (61.54% independent, 30.27% dependent and 8.19% dead) was used by the ERG in exploratory sensitivity analyses. The manufacturer then used the relative risks of death and death or dependence to calculate the distribution of people in the
