Alteplase for treating acute ischaemic stroke
KEYWORDS: alteplase, stroke, treatment, manufacturer, committee, patients, acute, ischaemic stroke, ischaemic, hour, acute ischaemic, hours, death, window, model


was used by the ERG in exploratory sensitivity analyses. The manufacturer then used the relative risks of death and death or dependence to calculate the distribution of people in the alteplase arm across the independent, dependent and dead states at the end of the first phase (6 months). The manufacturer used the relative risk of death to estimate the proportion of people who would die and therefore enter the dead state during the first phase. The proportion of people in the dependent state at 6 months was calculated as the difference between the estimated proportion of people who were dead or dependent, and the estimated proportion who were dead. The manufacturer assumed in the model that a symptomatic intracranial haemorrhage had a cost impact (because it required a further diagnostic computed tomography [CT] scan), with the health consequences being captured in the Alteplase for treating acute ischaemic stroke (TA264) outcome of death or dependence from the clinical trials. 3.15 For the second phase of the model (6 to 12 months), the manufacturer assumed that people could move from the independent or dependent state to any other health state with equal probabilities for both treatment arms. These transition probabilities were based on the Lothian stroke registry. For the third phase of the model (beyond 12 months), the annual risk of a recurrent stroke (0.05), and the associated risk of mortality (0.25), were taken from the Lothian stroke registry. To estimate the mortality risk for people who did not have another stroke, the manufacturer took data from the Office for National Statistics life tables for England and Wales and adjusted them upward by a factor of 2.3 (taken from the Perth Community Stroke Study) to reflect the higher mortality rates among people who have had a stroke compared with the general UK population. 3.16 The manufacturer conducted a literature review to identify appropriate utility values for the independent and dependent states in the model. The manufacturer did not identify any relevant utility values additional to those used in NICE technology appraisal guidance 122 on alteplase in acute ischaemic stroke within the first 3 hours after symptom onset. The manufacturer's submission for this appraisal identified 1 trial (Dorman et al. 1997) that collected EQ-5D utility values in a sample of 147 patients from the Lothian stroke registry. This trial provided utility values of 0.74 (95% CI 0.69 to 0.79) for the independent state
