Alteplase for treating acute ischaemic stroke
KEYWORDS: alteplase, stroke, treatment, manufacturer, committee, patients, acute, ischaemic stroke, ischaemic, hour, acute ischaemic, hours, death, window, model


The results of these one-way sensitivity analyses indicated that the ICERs were robust to changes in most input parameters, except for the relative risks of death and death or dependence for treatment with alteplase applied in the first phase of the model. When the manufacturer used the upper limit of the 95% confidence interval for the relative risks of death (1.18) and death or dependence (0.92), alteplase treatment led to a very small loss in QALYs at a decreased cost compared with standard care, resulting in £44,342 saved per QALY lost. The manufacturer also conducted additional deterministic sensitivity analyses, which included different scenarios using additional clinical efficacy data from unplanned subgroup analyses of the ATLANTIS A and B and ECASS 2 trials for 3 to 4.5 hours, and weighted the results based on the assumption that in UK clinical practice a higher proportion of patients are treated during the 0- to 3-hour window (76%) than during the 3- to 4.5-hour window (24%). Using these analyses, alteplase either dominated placebo (that is, was both less costly and more effective) or had an ICER below £2,000 per QALY gained. Results of the probabilistic sensitivity analysis showed that alteplase had a high probability (above 90%) of being cost effective at a level of £20,000 to £30,000 per QALY gained. 3.20 The manufacturer's base-case deterministic cost-effectiveness analysis for the 3- to 4.5-hour window resulted in an ICER of £6,272 per QALY gained for Alteplase for treating acute ischaemic stroke (TA264) alteplase compared with standard care (incremental costs £2,068; incremental QALYs 0.33). The probabilistic cost-effectiveness analysis resulted in an ICER of £6,169 per QALY gained. The results of the one-way sensitivity analyses were similar to those for the 0- to 4.5-hour window, indicating that the ICERs were robust to changes in most input parameters, except for changes in the relative risks of death and death or dependence for treatment with alteplase. In an additional sensitivity analysis, the manufacturer pooled 3- to 4.5-hour efficacy data from the ECASS 2 and ATLANTIS trials with the ECASS 3 data. This sensitivity analysis resulted in an ICER of £5,631 per QALY gained for alteplase compared with standard care. 3.21 For the 0- to 3-hour treatment window, the manufacturer presented cost- effectiveness results similar to those presented in the previous guidance on alteplase in acute ischaemic stroke (NICE technology appraisal guidance 122); that is, alteplase dominated standard care, resulting in
