Alteplase for treating acute ischaemic stroke
KEYWORDS: alteplase, stroke, treatment, manufacturer, committee, patients, acute, ischaemic stroke, ischaemic, hour, acute ischaemic, hours, death, window, model


cost- effectiveness results similar to those presented in the previous guidance on alteplase in acute ischaemic stroke (NICE technology appraisal guidance 122); that is, alteplase dominated standard care, resulting in lower costs and more QALYs for both the deterministic and the probabilistic analyses. 3.22 The ERG considered that the clinical-effectiveness evidence submitted by the manufacturer was of good quality. The ERG noted that the patients randomised to the alteplase arm of both the NINDS trial (which provided clinical evidence for the 0- to 3-hour window) and the ECASS 3 trial had strokes that were less severe on average, which in turn may have biased the results in favour of alteplase. However, the manufacturer also presented adjusted analyses for the primary outcome (disability at 90 days) from the ECASS 3 trial. The ERG considered that the meta-analytical approach by the manufacturer was appropriate. The ERG agreed with the manufacturer that data derived from unplanned subgroup analyses from the ATLANTIS A and B and ECASS 2 trials, in which treatment with alteplase was administered up to 6 hours from onset of symptoms, should not be included in the base-case meta-analyses. The ERG also noted that heterogeneity between the studies included in the base-case meta-analyses for the 0- to 4.5-hour window for the outcomes of death and death or dependence was low and not statistically significant. 3.23 The ERG commented that the manufacturer submitted an economic model that was in line with the decision problem defined in the scope and closely adhered to the NICE reference case requirements for economic analysis. The ERG commented that the manufacturer provided a reasonable strategy for searching Alteplase for treating acute ischaemic stroke (TA264) the literature for existing cost-effectiveness studies, although it did not explicitly state its exclusion criteria. The ERG stated that it was appropriate for the manufacturer to conduct separate analyses for patients eligible for treatment within the 0- to 3-hour window and the 3- to 4.5-hour window. The ERG noted that the utility values for the dependent and independent states did not allow for any decreases in health-related quality of life over time, which may have overestimated the lifetime QALYs accrued in the independent state. The ERG stated that, although this may have biased the QALY gains in favour of alteplase, the manufacturer's economic model was not sensitive to changes in the utility values, and so the effect of adjusting these values over time
