Alteplase for treating acute ischaemic stroke
KEYWORDS: alteplase, stroke, treatment, manufacturer, committee, patients, acute, ischaemic stroke, ischaemic, hour, acute ischaemic, hours, death, window, model


the QALY gains in favour of alteplase, the manufacturer's economic model was not sensitive to changes in the utility values, and so the effect of adjusting these values over time in the model was likely to be small. The ERG noted that in the probabilistic sensitivity analysis, the manufacturer sampled independently the relative risks for death and death or dependence associated with treatment with alteplase, which had a marked impact on the ICERs in the one-way sensitivity analyses. The ERG noted that this did not take into account the likely correlation between the outcomes of death and death or dependence, and that the probabilistic sensitivity analysis might not provide an accurate description of the uncertainty around the mean costs and QALYs, although the ERG did not expect it to have a large impact on the ICER. 3.24 The ERG conducted an exploratory sensitivity analysis by replacing the proportion of people in the 3 health states (dependent, independent and dead) at the end of the first phase (0 to 6 months) taken from the Lothian stroke registry with those observed in the ECASS 3 trial population. Because mortality rates were lower in the ECASS 3 trial, a higher proportion of patients were in the independent state (61.54%) and a lower proportion in the dead state (8.19%). This sensitivity analysis resulted in an ICER of £4,451 per QALY gained for alteplase compared with standard care for the 0- to 4.5-hour window (incremental costs £698; incremental QALYs 0.157). 3.25 Full details of all the evidence are in the manufacturer's submission and the ERG report. Alteplase for treating acute ischaemic stroke (TA264) 4 Consideration of the evidence 4.1 The Appraisal Committee reviewed the data available on the clinical and cost effectiveness of alteplase, having considered evidence on the nature of acute ischaemic stroke and the value placed on the benefits of alteplase by people with the condition, those who represent them, and clinical specialists. It also took into account the effective use of NHS resources. 4.2 The Committee discussed the place of alteplase in the clinical pathway for people who have had an acute ischaemic stroke. The Committee heard from the clinical specialists that alteplase is routinely used in the NHS in England and Wales in patients aged 18 to 80 years within 4.5 hours of onset of symptoms. The Committee was aware of the recently published third International Stroke Trial (IST-3), an open-label
