Alteplase for treating acute ischaemic stroke
KEYWORDS: alteplase, stroke, treatment, manufacturer, committee, patients, acute, ischaemic stroke, ischaemic, hour, acute ischaemic, hours, death, window, model


Wales in patients aged 18 to 80 years within 4.5 hours of onset of symptoms. The Committee was aware of the recently published third International Stroke Trial (IST-3), an open-label trial comparing alteplase with standard care. However, the Committee noted that the manufacturer had excluded this trial from its submission because it provided data that were not restricted to alteplase within its current UK marketing authorisation; specifically, the trial included patients aged above 80 years and patients who were treated up to 6 hours after the onset of symptoms. 4.3 The Committee heard from clinical specialists that alteplase is more effective the earlier it is given to patients. The clinical specialists commented that, while extending the treatment window to 4.5 hours would enable more patients to be treated with alteplase, this might result in some patients who present early receiving delayed treatment and therefore not benefiting from alteplase to the extent that they might otherwise have. The clinical specialists and patient experts emphasised the importance of treating patients with acute ischaemic stroke as early as possible. 4.4 The Committee heard from the patient experts that an important benefit of alteplase was its potential to reduce long-term disability caused by stroke, which can affect the quality of life of the patient and their families, carers and friends, and can also increase the need to adjust the patient's lifestyle and living conditions. The Committee was aware that brain imaging must be carried out to confirm the absence of intracranial bleeding before treatment with alteplase can be started. However, the Committee heard from 1 patient expert that some Alteplase for treating acute ischaemic stroke (TA264) people with acute ischaemic stroke may not have immediate access to brain- imaging facilities. The Committee recognised the importance of this issue, and noted the NICE Quality Standard for Stroke, which recommends that patients with acute stroke receive brain imaging within 1 hour of arrival at hospital. The Committee also heard from clinical specialists that Accident and Emergency departments of all acute-care hospitals in England and Wales should have access to 24-hour, 7 days a week brain-imaging facilities. The Committee recognised that patients outside the licensed indication for alteplase (under 18 years and over 80 years of age) in England and Wales may have the potential to benefit from treatment with the technology. However, consistent with NICE methods, the Committee was aware that it can only make recommendations
