Alteplase for treating acute ischaemic stroke
KEYWORDS: alteplase, stroke, treatment, manufacturer, committee, patients, acute, ischaemic stroke, ischaemic, hour, acute ischaemic, hours, death, window, model


in England and Wales may have the potential to benefit from treatment with the technology. However, consistent with NICE methods, the Committee was aware that it can only make recommendations based on the current marketing authorisation for alteplase. 4.5 The Committee considered the evidence submitted by the manufacturer on the clinical effectiveness of alteplase. The Committee noted that no clinical- effectiveness data for the 0- to 3-hour treatment window additional to those included in NICE technology appraisal guidance 122 were available, and that clinical-effectiveness data for the 3- to 4.5-hour treatment window were derived primarily from the ECASS 3 trial. The Committee heard from clinical specialists that, although the trial included only a small proportion of patients from the UK, the results of the trial were generalisable to patients receiving alteplase treatment in England and Wales. The Committee also heard from the clinical specialists that it was reasonable for the manufacturer to measure the effectiveness of alteplase from analyses that adjusted for baseline differences in potential confounding variables between the 2 treatment groups. In addition, the clinical specialists noted that the modified Rankin scale was widely used as a measure of disability in stroke patients in England and Wales. The Committee concluded that the ECASS 3 trial was of good methodological quality and provided robust evidence of the clinical efficacy of alteplase for the 3- to 4.5-hour treatment window. 4.6 The Committee considered the clinical effectiveness of alteplase for the 3- to 4.5-hour treatment window. The Committee noted that no statistically significant differences in mortality, or in the composite outcome of death or dependence, between patients randomised to alteplase or standard care were observed at 90-day follow-up. However, the Committee also noted that a statistically significantly higher proportion of patients in the alteplase treatment arm achieved Alteplase for treating acute ischaemic stroke (TA264) a favourable outcome without significant disability (modified Rankin scale score of 0 or 1) at 90-day follow-up. The Committee therefore concluded that alteplase administered between 3 and 4.5 hours after onset of stroke symptoms was an effective treatment for acute ischaemic stroke because it decreased the probability of disability. 4.7 The Committee considered the manufacturer's meta-analyses, which generated alternative estimates of alteplase's effect on all-cause mortality and also on death or dependence (modified Rankin scale score of 3 to 6) at 90 days for each of the 3 treatment windows (0 to 3 hours, 3 to 4.5
