Alteplase for treating acute ischaemic stroke
KEYWORDS: alteplase, stroke, treatment, manufacturer, committee, patients, acute, ischaemic stroke, ischaemic, hour, acute ischaemic, hours, death, window, model


also on death or dependence (modified Rankin scale score of 3 to 6) at 90 days for each of the 3 treatment windows (0 to 3 hours, 3 to 4.5 hours, and 0 to 4.5 hours), and which were used for the clinical-effectiveness parameters in the manufacturer's economic model. The Committee noted that the trials included in the meta- analyses for the 0- to 4.5-hour treatment window were of good methodological quality and were sufficiently similar in terms of study design and results. The Committee noted that there were no statistically significant differences in all- cause mortality reported at 90 days between alteplase and placebo for any of the 3 treatment windows. Therefore, the Committee agreed that an effect of alteplase on improving survival has currently not been proven. The Committee noted that a statistically significant difference in favour of alteplase was reported for the composite outcome of death or dependence for the 0- to 3-hour and 0- to 4.5-hour treatment windows in the manufacturer's meta-analyses. The Committee therefore concluded that alteplase administered between 0 and 4.5 hours after onset of stroke symptoms was an effective treatment for acute ischaemic stroke because it decreased the probability of death or dependence. 4.8 The Committee considered the evidence on adverse reactions associated with alteplase. The Committee noted that a significantly higher proportion of patients in the alteplase arm had symptomatic intracranial haemorrhage within 10 days compared with the placebo arm for the 3- to 4.5-hour window in the ECASS 3 trial and for the 0- to 4.5-hour window in the manufacturer's meta-analyses. However, the Committee noted that while alteplase increased the risk of symptomatic intracranial haemorrhage, the absolute number of patients in the ECASS 3 trial who had a symptomatic intracranial haemorrhage was small. The Committee heard from the clinical specialists that symptomatic intracranial haemorrhage is the primary cause of death within 7 days for patients receiving alteplase treatment, and that clinicians have difficulty predicting which patients are at high risk. The Committee also noted that the proportion of other reported Alteplase for treating acute ischaemic stroke (TA264) serious adverse reactions and fatal adverse reactions in the ECASS 3 trial up to 90 days was similar across the 2 treatment arms. The Committee concluded that, although the increased risk of symptomatic intracranial haemorrhage associated with alteplase is offset by significant improvements in favourable outcomes at 90 days, symptomatic intracranial haemorrhage is an
