Alteplase for treating acute ischaemic stroke
KEYWORDS: alteplase, stroke, treatment, manufacturer, committee, patients, acute, ischaemic stroke, ischaemic, hour, acute ischaemic, hours, death, window, model


the dependent or independent health states. The Committee heard from the clinical specialists that this assumption was reasonable. Overall, the Committee concluded that the economic model adhered to the NICE reference case for economic analysis and Alteplase for treating acute ischaemic stroke (TA264) the modelling approach was reasonable. 4.10 The Committee considered the most plausible ICERs presented by the manufacturer and also by the ERG in its exploratory analyses. It agreed that alteplase either dominated standard care or had an ICER below £10,000 per QALY gained depending on the time-to-treatment window considered. The Committee noted that the results were robust for most of the deterministic sensitivity analyses conducted by the manufacturer. The Committee also noted that none of the additional exploratory analyses undertaken by the ERG resulted in ICERs that varied substantially from those presented in the manufacturer's submission. The Committee considered that patients with acute ischaemic stroke who are admitted to hospital later (beyond 3 hours after onset of symptoms) may have less severe stroke and so any absolute benefit of treatment with alteplase compared with standard care may be diminished, resulting in a higher ICER. However, the Committee noted that the ICER for the 3- to 4.5-hour treatment window was low and therefore concluded that treating acute ischaemic stroke with alteplase within 0 to 4.5 hours of onset of stroke symptoms was a cost- effective use of NHS resources. The Committee also agreed with the clinical specialists that extending the time window for treatment should not diminish the urgency with which people suspected of having an acute ischaemic stroke should be treated. 4.11 The Committee discussed whether any equality issues required consideration in this appraisal. The Committee was aware that extension of the licence to 4.5 hours after symptom onset may enable increased access to treatment with alteplase for patients in remote or rural locations. Alteplase for treating acute ischaemic stroke (TA264) 5 Implementation 5.1 Section 7 of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (Constitution and Functions) and the Health and Social Care Information Centre (Functions) Regulations 2013 requires integrated care boards, NHS England and, with respect to their public health functions, local authorities to comply with the recommendations in this evaluation within 3 months of its date of publication. 5.2 The Welsh ministers have issued directions to the NHS in Wales on implementing NICE technology appraisal guidance. When a NICE technology appraisal guidance recommends the
