Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: ivig, liver, injury, normal, vijaya prakash, vijaya, panel, prakash, case, transaminitis, immunoglobulin, aviraag, aviraag vijaya, patient, use


complications. We describe the case of a patient who developed acute liver injury following the administration of IVIG. Case Presentation A 53-year-old female presented with complaints of nausea and vomiting, which had significantly limited her appetite for about a week. At presentation, she was recognized to have hyponatremia with a sodium of 121 and was admitted to the hospital for the management of acute hyponatremia. Her only significant past medical history was SFN with complaints of pain and burning sensation in her hands and feet from around 15 years. Her diagnosis of SFN had been established about a year and a half before hospitalization. An extensive panel of laboratory tests that included a complete blood count (CBC), comprehensive metabolic panel, thyroid function tests, heavy metal screen, and autoimmune panel apart from positive anti-TS-HDS was unremarkable. Finally, a skin biopsy was obtained, which was diagnostic of SFN. She was hence started on IVIG after a failed trial of duloxetine, gabapentin, and pregabalin. After starting therapy, she noted improvement in her symptoms of pain and paresthesia. The IVIG she had been receiving was an FDA- approved, glycine-based immune globulin infusion called GAMMAGARD LIQUID, which has been associated with hypersensitivity, renal dysfunction, thrombotic events, aseptic meningitis, hemolysis, transfusion- associated lung injury, and transmittable infectious agents such as viruses. She was on a cycle of five days per week every four weeks, which was tapered gradually, and had received her last dose one week before the hospitalization. On a routine physical, her vitals were noted to be stable, and the rest of her examination was grossly unremarkable. Initial laboratory investigations included a CBC and metabolic panel. The CBC was grossly normal apart from mild leukopenia at 3.6 cells/L with a normal differential. The metabolic panel was essentially normal apart from a deranged hepatic panel (Table 1). The erythrocyte sedimentation rate was elevated to 81 mm/hour with a normal C-reactive protein at 4.25 mg/L. A complete infectious disease work- up including tests for hepatitis was found to be non-contributory. She did have sporadic episodes of How to cite this article Vijaya Prakash A, Parvathaneni A, Malempati S, et al. (December 30, 2023) Intravenous Immunoglobulin Induced Transaminitis. Cureus 15(12): e51347. DOI diarrhea, which, coupled with the finding of elevated transaminases, warranted a celiac disease evaluation, which was found to be negative. A thyroid panel was also found to be normal. Her R factor was 6, indicative
