Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: ivig, liver, injury, normal, vijaya prakash, vijaya, panel, prakash, case, transaminitis, immunoglobulin, aviraag, aviraag vijaya, patient, use


finding of elevated transaminases, warranted a celiac disease evaluation, which was found to be negative. A thyroid panel was also found to be normal. Her R factor was 6, indicative of a hepatocellular pattern of injury. She reported no use of new medications, supplements, or increased alcohol intake. There was no rationale for diagnostic imaging, and thus none were obtained. After exhausting all relevant diagnostic tests and given the history of recent IVIG infusions, the etiology of her hepatic injury was thought to be from the IVIG administrations. She was managed supportively during her cessation of further IVIG administrations. A repeat hepatic functional panel around three weeks following discharge showed a drastic reduction of her liver enzymes (Table 1). Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 21 AST (normal: 0-40 U/L) 541 460 395 84 ALT (normal: 0-32 U/L) 354 330 335 67 Alkaline phosphatase (normal: 25-150 U/L) 176 157 157 110 TABLE 1: Trend of the liver enzymes AST, aspartate transaminase; ALT, alanine transaminase Discussion The immunomodulatory roles of IVIG are multifold and include blocking the Fc receptors of immune cells in the reticuloendothelial system, abrogation of pathogenic autoantibodies by idiotype-anti-idiotypic networks, and preventing complement cellular damage by exhaustion of C5b-9 membrane attack complex by clearing active complement products (C3b and C4b) . IVIG, at its inception, had an increasing association with adverse effects such as fever, chills, fatigue, and joint pains, and this was thought to be due to the formation of immunoglobulin aggregates, and thus stabilizers such as sucrose, maltose, sorbitol, and glycine were added. They were also shown to contribute to modulating mononuclear cell proliferation and thus have since become a common additive in the preparation of commercial IVIG . A rare side effect that has been previously described in connection with the use of IVIG is acute liver injury [8-10]. The mechanism of this pattern of injury has not been understood to date. One study involving 341 infusions of IVIG hypothesized that the use of saccharide stabilizing agents such as maltose and sucrose contributed to transaminitis . The same study found that there were no elevations in liver enzymes among patients who were given glycine-based IVIG. Our case, however, is asynchronous with this analysis as on investigation, we found that the stabilizing agent in the IVIG formulation used in our patient was glycine, with no portion of saccharides, sorbitol, or glycol. A previously proposed mechanism
