Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: ivig, liver, injury, normal, vijaya prakash, vijaya, panel, prakash, case, transaminitis, immunoglobulin, aviraag, aviraag vijaya, patient, use


on investigation, we found that the stabilizing agent in the IVIG formulation used in our patient was glycine, with no portion of saccharides, sorbitol, or glycol. A previously proposed mechanism of IVIG-related cell injury was the induction of programmed cell death by involving Fas (CD95/APO-1), a transmembrane glycoprotein acting as an archetypal death receptor and activation of caspases . This study, however, was specific to apoptosis induced by IVIG in CD-40- activated normal tonsillar B cells and leukemic cells of lymphocyte and monocytic lineage. There is still a dilemma as to which components of IVIG are involved in cell damage, warranting a further look into the individual components of IVIG. Conclusions With the failure to completely understand the etiopathogenesis involved in this specific disease pattern, one consistent positive observation is the transient nature of the liver injury. With the cessation of IVIG, there has been a demonstration of resolution of transaminitis both in our patient and in previous studies. Thus far, we have not come across a fatal or disabling case of liver injury from the use of IVIG, and thus further exploration into the pathogenesis by invasive methods such as liver biopsy is needed. Additional Information Author Contributions All authors have reviewed the final version to be published and agreed to be accountable for all aspects of the work. Concept and design: Aviraag Vijaya Prakash, Sarat Malempati, Aparna Parvathaneni, Gary Keilson Acquisition, analysis, or interpretation of data: Aviraag Vijaya Prakash 2023 Vijaya Prakash et al. Cureus 15(12): e51347. DOI 2 of 3 Drafting of the manuscript: Aviraag Vijaya Prakash, Sarat Malempati, Aparna Parvathaneni Critical review of the manuscript for important intellectual content: Aviraag Vijaya Prakash, Sarat Malempati, Gary Keilson Supervision: Gary Keilson Disclosures Human subjects: Consent was obtained or waived by all participants in this study. Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all authors declare the following: Payment/services info: All authors have declared that no financial support was received from any organization for the submitted work. Financial relationships: All authors have declared that they have no financial relationships at present or within the previous three years with any organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work. Other relationships: All authors have declared that there are no other relationships or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.
