Obesity and Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, patients, weight, ldl-c, risk, loss, weight loss, obesity, decrease, cardiovascular, diet, hdl-c, lipid, effect


omega-3-fatty acid, icosapent ethyl, to statin therapy has been shown to decrease cardiovascular events. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION The prevalence of obesity has increased dramatically over the last several decades ( 1 , 2 ). In the United States it is estimated that approximately 35% of men and 40% of women are obese defined as a BMI >30 kg/m 2 ( 2 , 3 ). Additionally, approximately 1/3 of the population is overweight defined as a BMI between 25 and 30 kg/m 2 ( 2 , 4 ). Moreover, the obesity epidemic is not localized to the United States as there has been a marked increase in the prevalence of obesity worldwide ( 5 ). The number of individuals with morbid obesity (BMI > 40) has also greatly increased ( 6 ). It should be noted that very athletic individuals may have a high BMI without excess body fat (the increase in weight is due to muscle mass) and as a consequence not have metabolic abnormalities. Conversely, in certain ethnic groups obesity occurs even though the BMI is in the normal range ( 7 ). Of great concern is that the prevalence of obesity has also markedly increased in children ( 8 ). Obesity is associated with insulin resistance, alterations in lipid metabolism, and the metabolic syndrome, particularly when the excess adipose tissue is located in an intra-abdominal location or in the upper chest ( 9-11 ). Obesity is a risk factor for the development of cardiovascular disease, but it appears that much of this effect is accounted for by obesity inducing dyslipidemia, diabetes, hypertension, inflammation, and a procoagulant state ( 9-13 ). The majority of deaths related to high BMI are due to cardiovascular disease ( 5 ). LIPID ABNORMALITIES IN PATIENTS WITH OBESITY The lipid abnormalities seen in patients who are obese include elevated TG, VLDL, Apo B, and non-HDL-C levels, which are all commonly observed ( 9 , 10 , 14 , 15 ). HDL-C and Apo A-I levels are typically low ( 9 , 10 , 14 , 15 ). LDL-C levels are frequently in the normal to slightly elevated range, but an increase in small dense LDL is often seen resulting in an increased number of LDL particles ( 9 , 10 , 14 , 15 ). These small dense LDL
