Obesity and Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, patients, weight, ldl-c, risk, loss, weight loss, obesity, decrease, cardiovascular, diet, hdl-c, lipid, effect


an increase in small dense LDL is often seen resulting in an increased number of LDL particles ( 9 , 10 , 14 , 15 ). These small dense LDL particles are considered to be more pro-atherogenic than large LDL particles for a number of reasons ( 16 ). Small dense LDL particles have a decreased affinity for the LDL receptor resulting in a prolonged period of time in the circulation. Additionally, these small particles enter the arterial wall more easily than large particles and then they bind more avidly to intra-arterial proteoglycans, which traps them in the arterial wall. Finally, small dense LDL particles are more susceptible to oxidation, which could result in an enhanced uptake by macrophages. Postprandial TG levels are also increased in subjects with obesity and these chylomicron remnants are pro-atherogenic ( 17 , 18 ). The greater the increase in BMI the greater the abnormalities in lipid levels. Approximately 60-70% of patients who are obese are dyslipidemic while 50-60% of patients who are overweight are dyslipidemic ( 9 ). Notably, obesity in children and young adults also leads to an increased prevalence of elevated TG and decreased HDL-C levels ( 19 ). The increased risk for cardiovascular disease in patients with obesity is partially accounted for by this dyslipidemia. Table 1. Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels in Patients who are Obese View in own window Increased TG Increased VLDL Increased apo B Increased non-HDL-C Increased small dense LDL Increased LDL particle number Decreased HDL-C Decreased apo A1 LDL-C and Lp(a) are not altered It should be emphasized that the effects of obesity on lipid metabolism are dependent on the location of the adipose tissue ( 20-24 ). Increased visceral adipose tissue and trunk (especially upper trunk) subcutaneous adipose tissue are associated with higher TG and lower HDL-C levels. In contrast, increased subcutaneous adipose tissue in the leg is associated with lower TG levels. The protective effect of leg fat may explain why women and African-Americans have lower TG levels. In addition, increased visceral adipose tissue and upper trunk subcutaneous adipose tissue are associated with insulin resistance, which may contribute to the lipid changes described above. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY OF THE DYSLIPIDEMIA OF OBESITY Figure 1. Changes in Lipid/Lipoprotein Metabolism Leading to the Dyslipidemia of Obesity. Production of TG Rich Lipoproteins There are a number of different abnormalities that contribute to the dyslipidemia seen in patients with obesity (
