Obesity and Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, patients, weight, ldl-c, risk, loss, weight loss, obesity, decrease, cardiovascular, diet, hdl-c, lipid, effect


Metabolism Leading to the Dyslipidemia of Obesity. Production of TG Rich Lipoproteins There are a number of different abnormalities that contribute to the dyslipidemia seen in patients with obesity ( figure 1 ) ( 9 , 15 , 18 , 25 , 26 ). These abnormalities are driven by the combination of the greater delivery of free fatty acids to the liver from increased total and visceral adiposity, insulin resistance, and a pro-inflammatory state, induced by macrophages infiltrating fat tissue ( 9 , 15 , 18 , 25 , 26 ). A key abnormality is the overproduction of VLDL particles by the liver, which is an important contributor to the elevation in serum TG levels ( 9 , 15 , 18 , 25 , 26 ). The rate of secretion of VLDL particles is highly dependent on TG availability, which is determined by the levels of fatty acids available for the synthesis of TG in the liver. An abundance of TG prevents the intrahepatic degradation of Apo B-100 allowing for increased VLDL formation and secretion. There are three major sources of fatty acids in the liver all of which may be altered in patients with obesity ( 9 , 15 , 18 , 25 , 26 ). First, the flux of fatty acids from adipose tissue to the liver is increased ( 9 , 25 , 26 ). An increased mass of adipose tissue, particularly visceral stores, results in increased fatty acid delivery to the liver. Additionally, insulin suppresses the lipolysis of TG to free fatty acids in adipose tissue. In patients with obesity a decrease in insulin activity due to insulin resistance results in the blunting of the inhibition of TG lipolysis and an increase in TG breakdown in adipose tissue leading to increased fatty acid deliver to the liver ( 9 , 26 ). A second source of fatty acids in the liver is de novo fatty acid synthesis. Numerous studies have shown that fatty acid synthesis is increased in the liver in patients with obesity ( 15 , 25 , 27 ). This increase may be mediated by the hyperinsulinemia seen in patients with insulin resistance. Specifically, insulin stimulates the activity of SREBP-1c, a transcription factor that increases the expression of the enzymes required for the synthesis of fatty acids. While the liver is insulin resistant to the effects of insulin on carbohydrate metabolism, the liver remains
