Obesity and Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, patients, weight, ldl-c, risk, loss, weight loss, obesity, decrease, cardiovascular, diet, hdl-c, lipid, effect


increases the expression of the enzymes required for the synthesis of fatty acids. While the liver is insulin resistant to the effects of insulin on carbohydrate metabolism, the liver remains sensitive to the effects of insulin stimulating lipid synthesis ( 28 ). The third source of fatty acids is the uptake of TG rich lipoproteins by the liver. Studies have shown an increase in intestinal fatty acid synthesis accompanied by the enhanced secretion of chylomicrons in obesity ( 15 , 25 , 29 ). This increase in chylomicrons leads to the increased delivery of fatty acids to the liver. The increase in hepatic fatty acids by these three pathways results in an increase in the synthesis of TG in the liver and the protection of Apo B-100 from degradation resulting in the increased formation and secretion of VLDL ( 15 , 26 ). Additionally, the ability of insulin to suppress Apo B secretion is diminished in patients with obesity and marked insulin resistance ( 25 , 26 ). Finally, increased caloric intake may contribute to circulating TG, either by dietary fat leading to increased chylomicron TG levels and/or providing fatty acids to the liver or dietary carbohydrate enhancing de novo hepatic lipogenesis. Metabolism of TG Rich Lipoproteins In addition to the overproduction of TG rich lipoproteins by the liver and intestine there are also abnormalities in the subsequent metabolism of these TG rich lipoproteins, which contributes to the increase in TG levels ( 9 , 15 , 18 , 25 ). Patients who are obese have an increase in Apo C-III levels ( 25 , 30 ). Apo C-III expression is inhibited by insulin and hence the insulin resistance that occurs in patients with obesity could account for the increase in Apo C-III ( 25 ). Apo C-III is an inhibitor of lipoprotein lipase activity and could thereby reduce the clearance of TG rich lipoproteins ( 31 ). In addition, Apo C-III also inhibits the cellular uptake of TG rich lipoproteins ( 31 ). Recent studies have shown that loss of function mutations in Apo C-III lead to decreases in serum TG levels and a reduced risk of cardiovascular disease ( 32-34 ). Interestingly, inhibition of Apo C-III expression results in a decrease in serum TG levels even in patients deficient in lipoprotein lipase indicating that the ability of Apo C-III to modulate serum TG levels is not dependent solely
