Obesity and Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, patients, weight, ldl-c, risk, loss, weight loss, obesity, decrease, cardiovascular, diet, hdl-c, lipid, effect


in a decrease in serum TG levels even in patients deficient in lipoprotein lipase indicating that the ability of Apo C-III to modulate serum TG levels is not dependent solely on regulating lipoprotein lipase activity ( 35 ). Finally, if insulin resistance is severe the insulin induced stimulation of lipoprotein lipase may be reduced, which would also decrease the clearance of TG rich lipoproteins ( 18 ). Thus, a decrease in clearance of TG rich lipoproteins also contributes to the elevation in serum TG levels in patients with obesity. Production of Small Dense LDL and HDL The elevation in TG rich lipoproteins in turn has effects on other lipoproteins ( figure 1 ). Specifically, cholesterol ester transfer protein (CETP) mediates the equimolar exchange of TG from TG rich VLDL and chylomicrons for cholesterol from LDL and HDL ( 9 , 10 , 14 , 18 ). The increase in TG rich lipoproteins per se leads to an increase in CETP mediated exchange, increasing the TG content and decreasing the cholesterol content of both LDL and HDL. Additionally, obesity also increases the activity and mass of CETP ( 14 ). This CETP-mediated exchange underlies the commonly observed reciprocal relationship of low HDL-C levels when TG levels are high and the increase in HDL-C when TG levels decrease. The TG on LDL and HDL is then hydrolyzed by hepatic lipase and lipoprotein lipase leading to the production of small dense LDL and small HDL particles ( 9 , 10 , 18 ). Notably hepatic lipase activity is increased in patients who are obese with increased visceral adiposity, which will facilitate the removal of TG from LDL and HDL resulting in small lipoprotein particles ( 9 , 10 , 18 ). The affinity of Apo A-I for small HDL particles is reduced leading to the disassociation of Apo A-I and the clearance and breakdown of Apo A-I by the kidneys ( 9 ). These changes result in reduced levels of Apo A-I and HDL-C in patients who are obese. Role of Inflammation and Adipokines Obesity is a pro-inflammatory state due to macrophages that infiltrate adipose tissue. The cytokines produced by macrophages and the adipokines that are produced by fat cells also alter lipid metabolism ( 26 , 36-38 ). Adipokines, such as adiponectin and resistin, regulate lipid metabolism. The circulating levels of adiponectin are decreased in subjects who are obese ( 39 ).
