Obesity and Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, patients, weight, ldl-c, risk, loss, weight loss, obesity, decrease, cardiovascular, diet, hdl-c, lipid, effect


metabolism ( 26 , 36-38 ). Adipokines, such as adiponectin and resistin, regulate lipid metabolism. The circulating levels of adiponectin are decreased in subjects who are obese ( 39 ). Decreased adiponectin levels are associated with elevations in serum TG levels and decreases in HDL-C levels ( 39 ). This association is thought to be causal as studies in mice have shown that overexpressing adiponectin (transgenic mice) decreases TG and increases HDL-C levels while conversely, adiponectin knock-out mice have increased TG and decreased HDL-C levels ( 39 ). The adiponectin induced decrease in TG levels is mediated by an increased catabolism of TG rich lipoproteins due to an increase in lipoprotein lipase activity and a decrease Apo C-III, an inhibitor of lipoprotein lipase ( 39 ). The increase in HDL-C levels induced by adiponectin is mediated by an increase in hepatic Apo A-I and ABCA1, which results in the increased production of HDL particles ( 39 ). Resistin is increased in subjects who are obese and the levels of resistin directly correlate with plasma TG levels ( 40 ). Moreover, resistin has been shown to stimulate hepatic VLDL production and secretion due to an increase in the synthesis of Apo B, TG, and cholesterol ( 26 , 40 ). Finally, resistin is associated with a decrease in HDL-C and Apo A-I levels ( 26 ). The pro-inflammatory cytokines, TNF and IL-1, stimulate lipolysis in adipocytes increasing circulating free fatty acid levels, which will provide substrate for hepatic TG synthesis ( 37 ). In the liver, pro-inflammatory cytokines stimulate de novo fatty acid and TG synthesis ( 37 ). These alterations will lead to the increased production and secretion of VLDL. At higher levels the pro-inflammatory cytokines decrease the expression of lipoprotein lipase and increase the expression of angiopoietin like protein 4, an inhibitor of lipoprotein lipase ( 37 , 41 ). Together these changes decrease lipoprotein lipase activity, thereby delaying the clearance of TG rich lipoproteins. Thus, increases in the levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines will stimulate the production of TG rich lipoproteins and delay the clearance of TG rich lipoproteins, which together will contribute to the increase in serum TG that occurs in patients with obesity. Pro-inflammatory cytokines also affect HDL metabolism ( 42 , 43 ). First, they decrease the production of Apo A-I, the main protein constituent of HDL. Second, in macrophages pro-inflammatory cytokines decrease the expression of
