Obesity and Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, patients, weight, ldl-c, risk, loss, weight loss, obesity, decrease, cardiovascular, diet, hdl-c, lipid, effect


HDL metabolism ( 42 , 43 ). First, they decrease the production of Apo A-I, the main protein constituent of HDL. Second, in macrophages pro-inflammatory cytokines decrease the expression of ABCA1 and ABCG1, which will lead to a decrease in the efflux of phospholipids and cholesterol from the cell to HDL. Third, pro-inflammatory cytokines decrease the production and activity of LCAT, which will limit the conversion of cholesterol-to-cholesterol esters in HDL. This step is required for the formation of a normal spherical HDL particle and facilitates the ability of HDL to transport cholesterol. Together these changes induced by pro-inflammatory cytokines could result in a decrease in HDL-C and Apo AI levels. CURRENT TREATMENT GUIDELINES FOR SERUM LIPIDS The purpose of treating lipid disorders is to prevent the development of other diseases, particularly cardiovascular disease. Thus, the decision to treat should be based on the risk of the hyperlipidemia leading to those medical problems. A number of guidelines have been published that discuss in detail cardiovascular risk assessment and provide recommendations on treatment strategies ( 44-48 ). It should be noted that while these guidelines are similar there are significant differences between their recommendations. The current American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association (ACC/AHA) guidelines do not emphasize specific lipid/lipoprotein goals of therapy but rather to just treat with statins to lower LDL-C by a certain percentage ( 44 ). An exception is that they do recommend in patients with very high-risk ASCVD, to use an LDL-C threshold of 70 mg/dL to consider addition of non-statins to statin therapy. In contrast, other groups, such as the National Lipid Association, International Atherosclerosis Society, European Society of Cardiology/European Atherosclerosis Society, and American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists (AACE), do recommend lowering the LDL-C and non-HDL-C levels to below certain levels depending upon the cardiovascular risk in a particular patient but the recommendations from these organizations are not identical ( 43 , 45 - 47 ) ( 49 ).These issues are discussed in detail in the chapters on Guidelines for the Management of High Blood Cholesterol ( 50 ). In addition to cardiovascular complications, marked elevations in TG can lead to pancreatitis ( 51 ). The National Lipid Association recommends treating TG levels greater than 500mg/dL while the Endocrine Society recommends treating TG if they are greater than 1000mg/dL to lower the risk of pancreatitis ( 48 , 52 ). It should be noted that most
