Obesity and Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, patients, weight, ldl-c, risk, loss, weight loss, obesity, decrease, cardiovascular, diet, hdl-c, lipid, effect


while the Endocrine Society recommends treating TG if they are greater than 1000mg/dL to lower the risk of pancreatitis ( 48 , 52 ). It should be noted that most lipid experts would recommend trying to achieve an LDL-C levels less than 70mg/dL and non-HDL-C levels less than 100mg/dL at a minimum in patients with cardiovascular disease or patients at very high risk for the development of cardiovascular disease. AACE and European Society of Cardiology/European Atherosclerosis Society have recommended LDL-C levels less than 55mg/dL in patients at very high risk ( 47 , 49 ). In other patients, an LDL-C level less than 100mg/dL and non-HDL-C level less than 130mg/dL is a reasonable goal. The recommendations for evaluating and treating dyslipidemia in patients with obesity are the same as non-obese patients. For additional details on deciding who to treat and the goals of therapy see other Endotext chapters ( 50 , 51 , 53 ) MODALITIES TO TREAT LIPID ABNORMALITIES IN PATIENTS WITH OBESITY Effect of Diet There are two issues with regards to diet. First is the effect of weight loss on serum lipids. Second is the effect of dietary constituents (macronutrients) on serum lipids. For additional details on the effect of diet on lipid and lipoproteins please see the chapter “The Effect of Diet on Cardiovascular Disease and Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels” ( 54 ) and for additional information on weight loss diets see the chapter on “Dietary Treatment of Obesity” ( 55 ). LOW-CALORIE DIET-INDUCED WEIGHT LOSS In 1992, Dattilo and Kris-Etherton published a meta-analysis that evaluated the effect of weight loss on serum lipids ( 56 ). For every 1Kg decrease in body weight there was a 0.77mg/dL decrease in LDL-C and 1.33mg/dL decrease in TG. The effect of weight loss on HDL-C was more complex. For every 1kg decrease in body weight there is a 0.27mg/dL decrease in HDL-C during active weight loss. However, when weight is stabilized there is a 0.35mg/dL increase in HDL-C for every 1kg decrease in body weight that has occurred. In a more recent systemic review and meta-analysis Zomer et al. reported that a 5-10% weight loss resulted in a 16mg/dL decrease in TG, 10mg/dL decrease in LDL-C, and a nonsignificant effect on HDL (+0.5 mg/dL) ( 57 ). Finally, in a very recent meta-analysis of 30 randomized controlled trials with 2,434 participants by Hasan et al it was reported
