Obesity and Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, patients, weight, ldl-c, risk, loss, weight loss, obesity, decrease, cardiovascular, diet, hdl-c, lipid, effect


similar ( 62 ). Other studies that compared different diets over an extended of time period (at least one year) have reached similar conclusions ( 63-65 ). During the first 6 months of many diet studies, patients lose a significant amount of weight but unfortunately over an extended period of time most patients regain weight such that after two years the amount of weight loss is relatively modest. For example, in the study of Sacks et al patients lost approximately 6kg of weight during the first six months but by 24 months the total weight loss was only between 3-4kg ( 62 ). It is therefore essential that one focuses on “long-term” studies when comparing different diet approaches. At this time, it is not clear that any particular diet is “best” for inducing weight loss and individual weight loss is highly variable. The key is the ability of the patient to follow the diet for an extended period of time. DIETARY MACRONUTRIENT CONSTITUENTS The effect of different weight loss diets that differ by macronutrient content on the lipid profile has been evaluated in a large number of studies. A meta-analysis by Hu and colleagues examined the effect of a low-carbohydrate vs. a low-fat diet in 23 studies with 2,788 participants ( 64 ). They found, as expected, that both types of weight loss diets decreased LDL-C and TG levels and increased HDL-C levels. However, the low carbohydrate diet decreased TG and increased HDL-C to a greater extent than the low-fat diet. Conversely, the low-fat diet was more effective in lowering LDL-C levels. The results of this meta-analysis are shown in table 2 . It should be noted that the magnitude of these changes, except for the decrease in TG are small. Similarly, Mansoor et al in a meta-analysis of 11 RCT with 1369 participants reported that a low carbohydrate diet resulted in a decreased TG level (23mg/dL) and increased HDL-C level (5.5mg/dL) compared to a high fat diet but LDL-C levels were also increased (6.2mg/dL) with the low carbohydrate diet ( 66 ). Additionally, Naude and colleagues in a meta-analysis of 12 studies with 1603 subjects, found that a low carbohydrate diet compared to a “balanced” diet resulted in lower TG levels and higher HDL-C and LDL-C levels but once again the differences were relatively small ( 67 ). Additionally, a meta-analysis by Schwingshackl and Hoffmann compared high fat vs.
