Obesity and Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, patients, weight, ldl-c, risk, loss, weight loss, obesity, decrease, cardiovascular, diet, hdl-c, lipid, effect


TG levels and higher HDL-C and LDL-C levels but once again the differences were relatively small ( 67 ). Additionally, a meta-analysis by Schwingshackl and Hoffmann compared high fat vs. low fat diets and observed that the decrease in LDL-C was more pronounced with a low-fat diet whereas the increase in HDL-C and the decrease in TG were greater with the high-fat diet ( 68 ). Finally, a meta-analysis comparing ketogenic diets that are very-low in carbohydrates with low-fat diets resulted, as expected, in greater decreases in TG and increases in HDL-C levels with the ketogenic than the low-fat diet but the ketogenic diet leads to an increase in LDL-C levels ( 69 ). Table 2. Comparison of High and Low Fat and Carbohydrate Diets ( 64 ) View in own window Low carbohydrate/high fat Low fat/high carbohydrate Weight Loss (kg) -6.1 -5.0 LDL-C (mg/dL) -2.1 -6.0 HDL-C (mg/dL) 4.5 1.6 TG (mg/dL) -30.4 -17.1 While the typical increases in LDL-C levels observed with a ketogenic diet are modest, recently a series of reports have described marked elevations in LDL-C levels in some patients on a ketogenic diet ( 70-72 ). For example, Goldberg et al reported 5 patients with marked increases in LDL-C levels on a ketogenic diet ( 73 ). Three patients had LDL-C levels greater than 500mg/dl. Similarly, Schaffer et al described 3 patients in which a very low carbohydrate diet induced LDL-C levels greater then 400mg/dL ( 74 ). Finally, Schmidt et al reported 17 patients with LDL-C levels greater than 200mg/dL on a ketogenic diet ( 75 ). In these patients there was an average increase in their LDL-C level of 187 mg/dL ( 75 ). The elevations in LDL-C levels decrease towards normal with cessation of the ketogenic diet ( 73-75 ). It should be noted that most of the patients with marked elevations in LDL-C in response to a ketogenic diet had normal LDL-C levels prior to the dietary change ( 71 ). This hyper response seems to occur more commonly in patients who are lean ( 71 ) but has also been seen in obese patients ( 73 ). Many of the individuals who develop marked increases in LDL-C on a very low carbohydrate ketogenic diet have low triglyceride levels, elevated HDL-C levels, and are thin ( 70 , 71 ). This phenotype has been called the lean mass hyper-responder (LMHR) phenotype
