Obesity and Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, patients, weight, ldl-c, risk, loss, weight loss, obesity, decrease, cardiovascular, diet, hdl-c, lipid, effect


low carbohydrate ketogenic diet have low triglyceride levels, elevated HDL-C levels, and are thin ( 70 , 71 ). This phenotype has been called the lean mass hyper-responder (LMHR) phenotype ( 70 , 71 ). LMHR individuals have been defined as having triglycerides <70mg/dL, HDL-C > 80mg/dL, and LDL-C > 200mg/dL ( 70 , 71 ). The mechanism for the marked increase in LDL-C levels is unknown. A meta-analysis by Wycherley et al evaluated the effect of high protein vs. low protein diet on lipid levels in 24 studies with over a 1000 subjects ( 76 ). Weight loss was similar between the two diet strategies with less than a 1kg difference in weight loss between the high protein vs. low protein diets. Similarly, there were no differences in LDL-C or HDL-C levels but the high protein diet resulted in a greater decrease in TG levels (20mg/dL). A meta-analysis by Schwingshackl and Hoffmann compared the effect of low fat diets that were either low or high in protein ( 77 ). They observed no significant differences in LDL-C, HDL-C, or TG levels indicating that high protein diets have neither beneficial nor detrimental effects on lipid levels. There are many diet programs that a widely advertised. In a network meta-analysis of 121 eligible trials with 21, 942 overweight or obese patients Ge and colleagues compared the effect of 14 different diets on LDL-C and HDL-C levels ( 78 ). The diets could be grouped into low CHO diets (Atkins, South Beach, Zone), moderate macronutrients diets (Biggest Loser, DASH, Jenny Craig, Mediterranean, Portfolio, Slimming World, Volumetrics, Weight Watchers), and low-fat diets (Ornish, Rosemary Conley). The effect of these different diets on LDL-C and HDL-C levels are shown in table 3 . It should be noted that despite considerable weight loss the effect of these diets on LDL-C and HDL-C levels was very modest except for the LDL-C lowering seen with the Portfolio diet. The portfolio dietary pattern is a plant-based dietary pattern that includes four cholesterol-lowering foods; a) tree nuts or peanuts, b) plant protein from soy products, beans, peas, chickpeas, or lentils, c) viscous soluble fiber from oats, barley, psyllium, eggplant, okra, apples, oranges, or berries, and d) plant sterols initially provided in a plant sterol-enriched margarine. Unfortunately, a comparison of the effect of these 14 different diets on TG levels was not reported. Table 3. Effect of Different Diets in
