Obesity and Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, patients, weight, ldl-c, risk, loss, weight loss, obesity, decrease, cardiovascular, diet, hdl-c, lipid, effect


and/or trans fats increase LDL-C levels. GLYCEMIC INDEX The glycemic index of foods is a marker for the rapid absorption and appearance of glucose in the blood during meal consumption. Higher glycemic index foods result in greater glucose and insulin excursions than low-glycemic index foods. A meta-analysis by Goff et al has examined the effect of foods with a high glycemic index vs. foods with a low glycemic index in 28 studies with over a 1000 subjects ( 80 ). There was no significant effect of glycemic index on either HDL-C or TG levels. However, the low glycemic index foods resulted in a small decrease in LDL-C (approximately 6mg/dL). The decrease in LDL-C was only seen in the studies where the low glycemic diet also had an increase in dietary fiber, indicating that the observed differences were likely due to dietary fiber, a factor well known to decrease LDL-C levels. The effect of glycemic index has to be distinguished from that of carbohydrate levels. Indeed, in a recent study in which fiber was kept constant, a low glycemic index diet increased LDL-C when carbohydrate intake was high, but decreased LDL-C when carbohydrate was low ( 81 ). To summarize dietary constituents of weight loss diets have a small but significant impact on the changes in lipid levels. Low carbohydrate diets decrease TG levels to a greater extent than high carbohydrate diets. High saturated fat diets blunt the decrease in LDL-C that occurs with weight loss. HDL-C levels increase with weight loss and this increase is greatest with a high fat diet. A weight loss diet that contains a markedly reduced fat content my result in a decrease in HDL-C levels. Finally, a diet high in soluble fiber will lower LDL-C levels. As should be apparent from these data the effect of diet induced weight loss on the lipid profile is modest and thus in most patient’s pharmacologic therapy will be required to induce significant changes in the lipid profile. It should be emphasized that the inability to decrease weight with diet therapy is not a reason to abandon dietary therapy. Patients should be encouraged to decrease their intake of saturated fats (<7% of calories) and trans fats and increase their intake of soluble fiber, which will favorably effect LDL-C levels. Additionally, reducing intake of simple sugars and alcohol will lower TG levels. Thus, even in the absence of significant weight
