Obesity and Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, patients, weight, ldl-c, risk, loss, weight loss, obesity, decrease, cardiovascular, diet, hdl-c, lipid, effect


intake of soluble fiber, which will favorably effect LDL-C levels. Additionally, reducing intake of simple sugars and alcohol will lower TG levels. Thus, even in the absence of significant weight loss dietary therapy can be beneficial and should be encouraged. Effect of Exercise Exercise alone is usually not sufficient to induce significant weight loss ( 82 , 83 ). However, exercise when combined with diet therapy can facilitate weight loss and is considered very important for weight loss maintenance ( 82 ). It may also diminish the loss of muscle mass during weight loss ( 82 ). The effect of exercise on serum LDL-C varies with some studies showing a 4-7% decrease and some even showing increases ( 84 , 85 ). The decrease in LDL-C levels typically occurs in association with weight loss. However, the levels of small dense LDL decrease with exercise, while the levels of large LDL increase, an effect that occurs even in the absence of significant weight loss ( 85 ). To significantly increase HDL-C levels requires a considerable amount of exercise (700-2000kcal of exercise per week) ( 84 , 86 ). Serum TG levels are most responsive to exercise with various studies showing a 4-37% decrease in serum TG levels with exercise (mean decrease 24%) ( 84 ). Of note the changes in HDL-C and TG induced by exercise occur independent of weight loss ( 84 ). Resistance training alone has minimal effects on TG and HDL-C levels ( 87 ). It is recommended that patients exercise 150 minutes or more per week (for example 30 minutes 5x per week). The more intensive the exercise program the greater the effect on weight and lipid levels. Effect of Weight Loss Drugs There are several weight loss drugs currently approved for the long-term treatment of obesity. For a detailed discussion of weight loss drugs see the chapter on “Pharmacologic Treatment of Overweight and Obese Adults” ( 88 ). Weight loss drugs tend to decrease TG and LDL-C levels and increase HDL-C levels due to their ability to decrease weight but the results vary in individual patients. ORLISTAT (XENICAL) Orlistat is a lipase inhibitor that decreases fat absorption. Total cholesterol and LDL-C levels decrease with orlistat treatment to a greater degree than expected with diet alone ( 89-91 ). For example, in the XENDOS study LDL-C decreased by 12.8% in the orlistat group vs. 5.1% in the
