Obesity and Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, patients, weight, ldl-c, risk, loss, weight loss, obesity, decrease, cardiovascular, diet, hdl-c, lipid, effect


to a greater degree than expected with diet alone ( 89-91 ). For example, in the XENDOS study LDL-C decreased by 12.8% in the orlistat group vs. 5.1% in the placebo group ( 89 ). Additionally, studies have shown that the levels of small dense LDL are reduced and the average LDL particle size increased with orlistat treatment ( 92 ). It has been shown that orlistat, in addition to reducing dietary TG absorption, also decreases cholesterol absorption ( 93 ). A likely mechanism for the decrease in cholesterol absorption is orlistat inhibition of NPC1L1, a transporter in the intestine that mediates cholesterol absorption ( 94 ). Despite the effect on TG absorption, orlistat does not markedly affect either fasting TG or HDL-C levels beyond what one would expect with weight loss ( 90 , 95 ). However, orlistat does reduce postprandial TG levels and has been used to treat patients with familial chylomicronemia syndrome ( 96 ). PHENTERAMINE + TOPIRAMATE (QSYMIA) Phenteramine is a sympathomimetic amine that induces satiety and topiramate is a neurostabilizer that also decreases appetite. In randomized controlled trials, phenteramine + topiramate combination therapy decreased TG levels and increased HDL-C without a consistent effect on LDL-C levels ( 97-99 ). It is likely that these changes primarily represent the effect of the weight loss induced by this drug. NALTREXONE + BUPROPION (CONTRAVE) Naltrexone is an opioid antagonist and bupropion is an antidepressant. In large randomized control trials naltrexone + bupropion decreased TG levels by approx. 8-12%, decreased LDL-C levels by 0-6%, and increased HDL-C by 3-8% ( 100-103 ). The magnitude of these changes in lipid levels mimics what one would expect from weight loss. LIRAGLUTIDE (SAXENDA) Liraglutide is a GLP-1 agonist that has been approved for the treatment of obesity. A large randomized trial demonstrated modest reductions in TG (9%) and LDL-C levels (2.4%) and increases in HDL-C (1.9%) with liraglutide treatment ( 104 ). Another randomized trial failed to demonstrate changes in lipid parameters ( 105 ). However, a trial in patients with diabetes also resulted in modest improvements in TG and HDL-C levels ( 106 ). Thus, liraglutide induces modest changes in the lipid profile that mimics what one observes with weight loss. SEMAGLUTIDE (WEGOVY) Several studies have determined the effect of saxagliptin on lipid levels during weight loss trials. In the STEP 1and 2 trials minimal decreases in LDL-C and increases in
