Obesity and Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, patients, weight, ldl-c, risk, loss, weight loss, obesity, decrease, cardiovascular, diet, hdl-c, lipid, effect


SEMAGLUTIDE (WEGOVY) Several studies have determined the effect of saxagliptin on lipid levels during weight loss trials. In the STEP 1and 2 trials minimal decreases in LDL-C and increases in HDL-C were observed ( 107 , 108 ). However, a more marked decrease in TG were observed ( 107 , 108 ). In the STEP 3 trial LDL-C was decreased by 7mg/dL and TG by 17mg/dL while HDL-C was increased by 1.5mg/dL ( 109 ). In other studies it has been shown that GLP-1 receptor agonists reduce postprandial TGs by reducing circulating chylomicrons due to decreasing intestinal lipoprotein production ( 110 ). SUMMARY OF WEIGHT LOSS DRUGS Except for orlistat, which appears to lower LDL-C beyond what would be expected with weight loss alone, the effect of these weight loss drugs on fasting lipid levels seems to reflect their ability to induce weight loss. It should be noted that the change in lipid levels induced by weight loss drugs is modest, variable, and roughly correlates with the degree of weight loss. Effect of Bariatric Surgery on Lipids Bariatric surgery is more effective at inducing weight loss than either diet or medications ( 111 , 112 ). Associated with this greater decrease in weight is a more robust decrease in serum TG levels and increase in HDL-C levels ( 113-115 ). In some studies, a marked decrease in LDL-C is also observed. For example, Nguyen et al reported that in patients with severe obesity, Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) resulted in a 63% decrease in serum TG, a 31% decrease in LDL-C, and a 39% increase in HDL-C ( 116 ). Studies have also shown a decrease in postprandial lipemia and Lp(a) levels ( 117-119 ). Moreover, the ability of HDL to mediate cholesterol efflux from cells is improved following bariatric surgery ( 120-122 ). Many patients are able to discontinue their lipid lowering drugs post bariatric surgery. There are differences in the ability of different bariatric surgeries to impact lipids. Two randomized trials demonstrated a greater effect of RYGB compared to sleeve gastrectomy on dyslipidemia ( 123 , 124 ). In contrast, another randomized trial did not observe a difference in the effect of RYGB compared to sleeve gastrectomy on triglycerides, HDL-C, or LDL-C ( 125 ). However, in a meta-analysis comparing randomized trials of RNYGB vs. sleeve gastrectomy, Li et al reported that serum TG decreased to a greater degree
