Obesity and Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, patients, weight, ldl-c, risk, loss, weight loss, obesity, decrease, cardiovascular, diet, hdl-c, lipid, effect


The decrease in LDL-C with weight loss drugs included a relatively large number of patients treated with orlistat, which may have enhanced the LDL-C reduction. Effect of Lipid Lowering Drugs In general, the effect of lipid lowering drugs in patients with obesity is similar to the effects observed in normal weight patients. Statins are the first line drug except in patients with very high TG levels (>500mg/dL) where fibrates, fish oil (omega-3-fatty acids), or niacin may be used initially to specifically target very high TG (>500-1000mg/dL). For additional information on lipid lowering drugs please see the chapters on cholesterol lowering drugs and TG lowering drugs ( 129 , 130 ). Below we address issues of using lipid lowering drugs that have importance specifically for patients who are obese. STATINS Statins are easy to use and generally well tolerated by patients who are obese. Statins can adversely affect glucose homeostasis. In non-diabetics the risk of developing diabetes is increased by approximately 10% with higher doses of statins causing a greater risk than more moderate doses ( 131 , 132 ). The mechanism for this adverse effect is unknown but a recent study suggests that decreases in HMG-coenzyme A activity leads to weight gain, which could increase the risk of developing diabetes ( 133 ). Older patients who are obese with higher baseline glucose levels are at greatest risk for developing diabetes on statin therapy. Muscle symptoms occur in patients with obesity similar to what is observed in normal weight patients. One study has shown that the cardiorespiratory benefits of exercise were blunted in patients who are overweight or obese on statin therapy ( 134 ). However, a recent review concluded that statins do not consistently reduce muscle strength, endurance, or overall exercise performance ( 135 ). Statin outcome trials have not specifically focused on the benefits of statins in patients with obesity. However, subgroup analysis of the statin trials has demonstrated that the beneficial effects also occur in patients who are obese. In the Cholesterol Clinical Trialists meta-analysis, the reduction in cardiovascular events was no different in patients with a BMI greater than 30 or less than 25 ( 136 , 137 ). Thus, one can anticipate that statin treatment will achieve the same beneficial outcomes in patients who are obese as seen in the general population. BILE ACID SEQUESTRANTS Bile acid sequestrants may increase serum TG levels, which can be
