Obesity and Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, patients, weight, ldl-c, risk, loss, weight loss, obesity, decrease, cardiovascular, diet, hdl-c, lipid, effect


achieve the same beneficial outcomes in patients who are obese as seen in the general population. BILE ACID SEQUESTRANTS Bile acid sequestrants may increase serum TG levels, which can be a problem in some patients with obesity who are already hypertriglyceridemic ( 129 ). Colesevelam (Welchol) is a bile acid sequestrants that comes in pill or powder form that causes fewer side effects and has fewer interactions with other drugs than other preparations. Of particular note is that a number of studies have shown that colesevelam decreases A1c levels (approximately 0.5% decrease) and therefore this drug may have an added advantage in patients with obesity who are at high risk of developing diabetes ( 138 ). NIACIN Niacin reduces insulin sensitivity (i.e., causes insulin resistance), which can worsen glycemic control ( 139 ). In the HPS2-Thrive trial, niacin therapy induced new onset diabetes in subjects that were non-diabetic ( 140 ). In patients with obesity, who are at an increased risk of developing diabetes, niacin therapy increases the risk of these patients progressing to diabetes. Niacin can also increase serum uric acid levels and induce gout, an abnormality that is already common in patients with obesity ( 139 ). PCSK9 INHIBITORS In 2015 two monoclonal antibodies that inhibit PCSK9 (proprotein convertase subtilisin kexin type 9) were approved for the lowering of LDL cholesterol levels; Alirocumab (Praluent) and evolocumab (Repatha) ( 129 ). Inclisiran, small interfering RNA that stimulates the catalytic breakdown of PCSK9 mRNA, was approved in the US in 2021. The reduction in LDL cholesterol levels with PCSK9 inhibitor treatment is similar in obese and non-obese subjects and results in a 50-60% decrease in LDL cholesterol levels when added to statin therapy ( 129 , 141-143 ). BEMPEDOIC ACID Bempedoic acid was approved in the US in February 2020 and is an adenosine triphosphate-citrate lyase (ACL) inhibitor that decreases hepatic cholesterol synthesis ( 129 ). Patients with obesity often have elevated uric acid levels and an increased risk of gouty attacks and a major side effect of bempedoic acid is elevating uric acid levels ( 129 ). In clinical trials, 26% of bempedoic acid-treated patients with normal baseline uric acid values experienced hyperuricemia one or more times versus 9.5% in the placebo group (package insert). The increase in uric acid is due to bempedoic acid inhibiting renal tubular OAT2 ( 129 ). Elevations in blood uric acid levels may
