Obesity and Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, patients, weight, ldl-c, risk, loss, weight loss, obesity, decrease, cardiovascular, diet, hdl-c, lipid, effect


in the placebo group (package insert). The increase in uric acid is due to bempedoic acid inhibiting renal tubular OAT2 ( 129 ). Elevations in blood uric acid levels may lead to the development of gout and gout was reported in 1.5% of patients treated with bempedoic acid vs. 0.4% of patients treated with placebo. The risk for gout attacks were higher in patients with a prior history of gout (11.2% for bempedoic acid treatment vs. 1.7% in the placebo group) (package insert). In patients with no prior history of gout only 1% of patients treated with bempedoic acid and 0.3% of the placebo group had a gouty attack (package insert). EZETIMIBE, FIBRATES, AND OMEGA-3-FATTY ACIDS These drugs are well tolerated in patients with obesity and their use in patients with obesity does not have any unique concerns. TREATMENT APPROACH The first priority in treating lipid disorders is to lower the LDL-C levels to goal, unless TG are markedly elevated (> 500-1000mg/dL), which increases the risk of pancreatitis. LDL-C is the first priority because the data linking lowering LDL-C with reducing cardiovascular disease are extremely strong and we now have the ability to markedly decrease LDL-C levels. Dietary therapy is the initial step but in the majority of patients’ dietary modifications will not be sufficient to achieve the LDL-C goals. If patients are willing and able to make major changes in their diet it is possible to achieve remarkable reductions in LDL-C levels but this seldom occurs in clinical practice. Primary Prevention Patients The first step is determining the risk for developing atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. There are a number of different calculators for determining risk. In the US the most popular is the ACC/AHA risk calculator ( http://www.cvriskcalculator.com/ ) whereas in Europe the SCORE (Systematic Coronary Risk Estimation) is popular ( http://www.heartscore.org/en_GB/access ). The ACC/AHA recommendations are shown in Figure 2 and the European Society of Cardiology/European Atherosclerosis Society (ESC/EAS) recommendations are shown in Figure 3 ( 45 , 47 ). Note that the risk shown in the ACC/AHA calculator is for major cardiovascular events while the risk in the SCORE calculator is for mortality. Figure 2. ACC/AHA Recommendations for Patients without ASCVD, Diabetes, or LDL-C greater than 190mg/dL. Risk enhancers are listed in table 6. (Note the risk is for MI and stroke, both fatal and nonfatal). Figure 3. European Society of Cardiology/European Atherosclerosis Society Recommendations for Primary Prevention
