Obesity and Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, patients, weight, ldl-c, risk, loss, weight loss, obesity, decrease, cardiovascular, diet, hdl-c, lipid, effect


life-time risk of ASCVD events. Often one will find that the 10-year risk is modest but the life-time risk is high and this information should be included in the risk discussion to help in the decision process. Second, patients should be made aware of the natural history of ASCVD and that it begins early in life and slowly progresses overtime with high LDL-C levels accelerating the rate of development of atherosclerosis and low LDL-C leading to a slower progression of atherosclerosis ( 144 ). Third, patients should be made aware of genetic studies demonstrating that variants in genes that lead to lifetime decreases in LDL-C levels (for example the HMG-CoA reductase gene, NPC1L1 gene, PCSK9 gene, ATP citrate lyase gene, and LDL receptor gene) result in a decreased risk of cardiovascular events. In a recent study it was reported that a 10mg/dL lifetime decrease in LDL-C with any of these genetic variants was associated with a 16-18% decrease in cardiovascular events whereas a 10mg/dL reduction in LDL-C with lipid lowering therapy later in life results in only approximately a 5% decrease in cardiovascular events (( 145 , 146 ). The combination of the natural history and the results observed with genetic variants strongly suggests that early therapy to lower LDL-C levels will have greater effects on reducing the risk of ASCVD events than starting therapy later in life. This information needs to be discussed with the patient. Fourth, when patients and/or health care providers are uncertain of the best course of action obtaining a cardiac calcium scan can be very helpful in the decision-making process, particularly in older individuals ( 45 ). A score of 0, particularly in an older patient would indicate that statin therapy is not needed whereas a score > 100 would indicate a need for statin therapy. A score of 1-99 favors the use of a statin. In most primary prevention patients, statin therapy is sufficient to lower LDL-C levels to goal (< 100mg/dL). One can usually start with moderate statin therapy (for example atorvastatin 10-20mg or rosuvastatin 5-10mg) and increase the statin dose, if necessary, to achieve LDL-C goals. In some instances, primary prevention patients are at high risk (see figures 2 and 3 ) and should be started on intensive statin therapy with lower LDL-C goals. Statins are available as generic drugs and therefore are relatively inexpensive. If a patient does not achieve their
