Obesity and Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, patients, weight, ldl-c, risk, loss, weight loss, obesity, decrease, cardiovascular, diet, hdl-c, lipid, effect


and should be started on intensive statin therapy with lower LDL-C goals. Statins are available as generic drugs and therefore are relatively inexpensive. If a patient does not achieve their LDL-C goal on intensive statin therapy, cannot tolerate statin therapy, or is able to take only a low dose of a statin one can use ezetimibe (generic drug), bempedoic acid, bile acid sequestrant, or PCSK9 inhibitors to further lower LDL-C levels (for detailed discussion of cholesterol lowering drugs see ( 129 )). It should be noted that the addition of ezetimibe or a PCSK9 inhibitor to statin therapy has been shown to reduce cardiovascular events ( 147-150 ). Bempedoic acid has been shown to reduce cardiovascular event in statin intolerant patients ( 151 ). In most situations, ezetimibe is the drug of choice given its low cost, ability to reduce ASCVD events, and long-term safety record. Patients with Diabetes Most patients with diabetes without risk factors should be started on moderate statin therapy (for example atorvastatin 10-20mg or rosuvastatin 5-10mg) and the dose increased as needed to reach therapy goals. Patients with diabetes with ASCVD or risk factors should be started on intensive statin therapy. In my opinion reasonable goals are shown in table 9 (similar to AACE and ECS/EAS guidelines) ( 47 , 49 , 152 ). If moderate statin therapy does not achieve the LDL-C goal the dose can be increased. If intensive therapy does not achieve LDL-C goals additional drugs can be added. If reasonably close to the LDL-C goal the initial drug added should be ezetimibe. If far from goal one could add a PCSK9 inhibitor. Once the LDL-C is at goal if the non-HDL-C remains high one can consider the approaches described in the section describing the approach to patients with LDL-C at goal and TG elevated. Table 9. ASCVD Risk Categories and Treatment Goals View in own window Risk Category Risk Factors/10-year risk LDL-C mg/dL Non-HDL-C mg/dL Extreme Risk Diabetes and clinical cardiovascular disease <55 <80 Very High Risk Diabetes with one or more risk factors <70 <100 High Risk Diabetes and no other risk factors <100 <130 Secondary Prevention Patients Patients with ASCVD (secondary prevention patients) should be started on intensive statin therapy (atorvastatin 40-80mg per day or rosuvastatin 20-40mg per day). Given the extensive data showing that the lower the LDL-C the greater the reduction in ASCVD events most secondary prevention patients
