Obesity and Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, patients, weight, ldl-c, risk, loss, weight loss, obesity, decrease, cardiovascular, diet, hdl-c, lipid, effect


(atorvastatin 40-80mg per day or rosuvastatin 20-40mg per day). Given the extensive data showing that the lower the LDL-C the greater the reduction in ASCVD events most secondary prevention patients would benefit from the addition of ezetimibe to maximize LDL-C lowering without markedly increasing costs ( 146 ). The goal LDL-C in this patient population is an LDL<70mg/dL but many experts and some guidelines (ACCE, ECS/EAS) would prefer an LDL-C<55mg/dL if possible. If on intensive statin therapy and ezetimibe treatment the LDL-C is far above goal one could consider adding a PCSK9 inhibitor (this is particularly necessary if the LDL-C is greater than 100mg/dL or the patient is at very high risk due to other factors (diabetes, cerebral vascular disease, peripheral vascular disease, recent MI, history of multiple Mis, etc.)) ( 146 ). Patients with LDL Cholesterol at Goal but High TG (>150mg/dL to <500mg/dL) Patients with an LDL-C at goal but high TG levels (>150mg/dL to <500mg/dL) will often have increased non-HDL-C levels. Numerous studies have shown that the risk of ASCVD events is increased in this patient population ( 153 ). The initial step should be to improve lifestyle, treat secondary disorders that may be contributing to the increase in TG, and if possible, discontinue medications that increase TG levels ( 53 ). Studies have not demonstrated a reduction in cardiovascular events when niacin is added to statin therapy and given the side effects of niacin enthusiasm for using niacin in combination with statins to reduce ASCVD is limited ( 140 , 154 ). Similarly, the ACCORD-LIPID trial using fenofibrate and the PROMINENT trial using pemafibrate also failed to demonstrate that adding a fibrate to statin therapy reduces cardiovascular disease ( 155 , 156 ). Thus, there is no evidence that adding a fibrate to statin therapy in patients with high TG levels will reduce cardiovascular events. It should also be noted that in patients with diabetes fenofibrate reduces the development of diabetic microvascular disease ( 130 ). Recently, the REDUCE-IT trial demonstrated that adding the omega-3-fatty acid icosapent ethyl (EPA; Vascepa) to statin therapy in patients with elevated TG levels reduced the risk of ASCVD events by 25% while decreasing TG levels by 18% ( 157 ). In this trial the reduction in TG levels was relatively modest and would not have been expected to result in the magnitude of the decrease in cardiovascular disease observed in
