Obesity and Dyslipidemia
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, patients, weight, ldl-c, risk, loss, weight loss, obesity, decrease, cardiovascular, diet, hdl-c, lipid, effect


In this trial the reduction in TG levels was relatively modest and would not have been expected to result in the magnitude of the decrease in cardiovascular disease observed in the REDUCE-IT trial. Other actions of EPA, such as decreasing platelet function, anti-inflammation, decreasing lipid oxidation, stabilizing membranes, etc. could account for or contribute to the reduction in cardiovascular events ( 158 ). However, a very similar trial using a carboxylic acid formulation of EPA and DHA (STRENGTH Trial) while lowering the TG levels similar to that observed in the REDUCE-IT trial did not reduce cardiovascular events. This has led to controversy; does purified EPA have cardiovascular benefits that are not observed with the combination of DHA/EPA or was the use of mineral oil in the REDUCE-IT trial “toxic” increasing LDL-C levels and increasing inflammation? This controversy is discussed in another Endotext chapters ( 130 ) and in other publications ( 159 , 160 ). Ideally, this controversy will be resolved by a new cardiovascular outcome trial using icosapent ethyl without mineral oil serving as the placebo. In the meantime, in selected high-risk patients with LDL-C levels at goal and TG levels between 150-500mg/dL one can use icosapent ethyl therapy to reduce cardiovascular events. Patients with Very High TG Levels (>500-1000mg/dL) The main aim is to keep TG levels below 500 mg/dL to prevent TG-induced pancreatitis ( 161 , 162 ). Very high TG levels are frequently due to the coexistence of a genetic predisposition to hypertriglyceridemia with 1 or more secondary causes of hypertriglyceridemia ( 161 , 162 ). Initial treatment is a very low-fat diet to reduce TG levels into a safe range (<1000mg/dL). Treating secondary disorders that raise TG levels and when possible stopping drugs that increase TG levels is essential ( 161 , 162 ). Avoidance of simple sugars and ethanol is also indicated. If the TG levels remain above 500mg/dL the addition of fenofibrate or omega-3-fatty acids is indicated. Many patients with very high TG levels are at high risk for ASCVD and therefore after TG levels are controlled the patient should be evaluated for cardiovascular disease risk and if indicated LDL-C lowering therapy initiated. Decreased HDL Cholesterol Levels There are no studies demonstrating that increasing HDL-C levels reduces cardiovascular disease ( 163 ). It should be recognized that the crucial issue with HDL may not be the HDL-C levels per se but rather the
