Diagnosis and Treatment of Graves’ Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, graves, disease, patients, pubmed, graves disease, treatment, rai, hyperthyroidism, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, therapy, free, atds


made on clinical grounds, though this is not always possible. The specificity of symptoms and signs is generally low. The larger the number of symptoms and signs, the higher the probability that the clinical diagnosis is correct ( 7 ). The clinical features can vary from none to severe and depend on the duration, severity of thyrotoxicosis, age of the patient, and underlying comorbidities ( 8 ). Firstly, the question that needs to be answered is “does the patient have hyperthyroidism?” ( Table 1 ) and secondly “does the patient have features to suggest Graves’ disease?” ( Table 2 ). Table 1. Features of Hyperthyroidism View in own window Symptoms Weight loss despite normal or increased appetite Heat intolerance Excess sweating Palpitations Tremor Tiredness Reduced exercise tolerance Dyspnea Loose / increased frequency of bowel motions Anxiety / inability to relax Hyperactivity Mood disturbance Weakness Restlessness Insomnia Menstrual disturbances Loss of libido Ankle swelling Polyuria and polydipsia Hair loss Signs Evidence of recent weight loss Moist skin Goiter Upper eyelid retraction / lid lag Hyperkinesis Increased pulse pressure Sinus tachycardia, occasionally atrial fibrillation Cardiac failure Proximal myopathy Bulbar myopathy Abnormal mental state (hypomania / mania / depression) Brisk reflexes Peripheral edema Diffuse alopecia Palmar erythema Onycholysis Table 2. Features Suggestive of Graves’ Disease View in own window Family or personal history of autoimmune diseases Past history of Graves’ disease Female sex Middle age Diffuse goiter with bruit Graves’ orbitopathy (thyroid eye disease) Dermopathy Acropachy Predisposing immunomodulatory drugs: e.g. Alemtuzumab The four most typical symptoms are unexplained weight loss, palpitation/ awareness of tachycardia, tremors, and heat intolerance or sweating. Tiredness, exercise intolerance, breathlessness, loose bowel motions, anxiety, insomnia, goiter, upper eyelid retraction and lid lag, and menstrual disturbances are also frequently elicited. Less common symptoms are muscle weakness, increased thirst and polyuria, and itch. Older people may present with apathy and few or no other symptoms ( 9 ), leading to a delayed presentation with cardiac manifestations ( 10 ). Occasionally patients may present with complications of Graves’ disease as the presenting feature, for example atrial fibrillation or other tachyarrhythmia, heart failure, thyroid eye disease, diabetes, infertility, or osteoporotic fractures ( 8 , 9 ). Features that point towards Graves’ disease being the cause of the hyperthyroidism include personal or family history of autoimmune disease, past history of Graves’ disease, female sex, middle age, diffuse goiter associated with bruit, features of thyroid
