Diagnosis and Treatment of Graves’ Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, graves, disease, patients, pubmed, graves disease, treatment, rai, hyperthyroidism, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, therapy, free, atds


the cause of the hyperthyroidism include personal or family history of autoimmune disease, past history of Graves’ disease, female sex, middle age, diffuse goiter associated with bruit, features of thyroid eye disease, dermopathy and acropachy (see chapter Graves’ Disease: Complications). LABORATORY DIAGNOSIS Biochemical confirmation of hyperthyroidism and of the underlying cause, is mandatory as it is more sensitive than clinical assessment, documents objectively the severity of the hyperthyroidism, and guides choice of treatment ( 8 , 9 ). The thought process about laboratory diagnosis follows the same pattern as clinical diagnosis: hyperthyroidism should first be confirmed biochemically and then specific antibody tests used to diagnose Graves’ disease. Confirmation of Hyperthyroidism Measurement of serum TSH is the most sensitive initial screening test and TSH is fully suppressed (<0.05 mU/L) in newly presenting Graves’ disease. Patients who have low TSH in the 0.1–0.4mU/L range are likely to have another explanation for their symptoms. If TSH is suppressed, both serum free T4 and T3 should be measured (see chapter Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function). In the evolution of Graves’ disease, after serum TSH becomes fully suppressed, the next change is an elevation in serum free T3 and finally elevation in serum free T4. Patients with either elevation in free T3 alone (so called T3 thyrotoxicosis) or elevation in both free T3 and free T4 are considered to have overt hyperthyroidism, are at risk of complications, and should generally be offered treatment. The state of patients with isolated low TSH is termed ‘Subclinical Hyperthyroidism’ and treatment can be considered but is not mandatory ( 1 , 4 , 5 ) (see section below). Confirmation of Graves’ Disease TSH receptor antibodies (TRAb) are elevated in untreated Graves’ disease and the test of choice for confirmation of a precise diagnosis. The sensitivity and specificity of TRAb are around 95%, approaching 100% when TRAb bioassays are used ( 4 , 9 , 11 ). Thyroid scintigraphy using radioiodine or technetium is an alternative means of confirming the diagnosis of Graves’ disease. Typically, scintigraphy shows increased uniform and diffuse uptake ( Figure 1 ). Figure 1. Different patterns of radioiodine uptake of thyroid scintigraphy. (A) Normal. (B) Graves’ disease: diffuse increased uptake in both thyroid lobes. (C) Toxic multinodular goiter: “hot” and “cold” areas of uneven uptake. (D) Toxic adenoma: increased uptake in a single nodule with suppression of the surrounding thyroid. (E) Thyroiditis: decreased
