Diagnosis and Treatment of Graves’ Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, graves, disease, patients, pubmed, graves disease, treatment, rai, hyperthyroidism, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, therapy, free, atds


the choice of primary therapy depends largely upon patient preference and the likelihood of a favorable outcome given the presenting features (both clinical and biochemical). However, the goals and criteria for a successful outcome differ between treatments: for both radioiodine therapy and thyroidectomy the intention is to ablate or remove all functioning thyroid tissue (thus committing the patient to life-long thyroid hormone replacement therapy), whereas ATD therapy aims for long-term, drug-free remission ( 8 , 9 , 18 ). For patients presenting with mild hyperthyroidism, without goiter and serum TRAb concentrations less than three-fold above the threshold for positivity, antithyroid drugs provide greater than 50% chance of long-term remission. However, for patients with severe hyperthyroidism or large goiter at presentation, one of the definitive treatments (RAI therapy or surgical thyroidectomy) would be preferable, because the risk of relapse following a standard 12–18 months of ATDs is high ( 4 , 5 , 11 ). In this situation, RAI is a highly effective treatment, however, thyroidectomy would be the preferred choice in patients with a large goiter or for those with thyroid eye disease at presentation. Because none of these well-established treatments are ideal, new methods of treatment, including novel surgical approaches, minimally invasive radiological procedures and new drug therapies are emerging. Antithyroid Drugs Several thionamide (also known as thioureylene) ATDs are available, with methimazole and its pro-drug carbimazole being the most frequent first choice ( 12 , 13 ). Propylthiouracil is also widely available, and its sister compounds methylthiouracil and benzylthiouracil remain available for use in some countries ( 13 ). Methimazole and carbimazole have the advantage of being effective in a single daily dose, whereas propylthiouracil is usually taken twice or three times daily. All thionamide ATDs act as a preferential substrate for iodination by thyroid peroxidase, such that once ATD reaches a critical concentration in the thyroid tissue, ongoing iodination of thyroglobulin residues to make thyroid hormone precursors becomes negligible and thus thyroid hormone production is inhibited ( 14 ). Depending upon severity of underlying hyperthyroidism and dose of medication, it can take 4 to 8 weeks to normalize serum FT4 or FT3 following initiation of ATD treatment. After normalization of free serum thyroid hormones, the initial ATD dose can be reduced to avoid hypothyroidism, in a dose titration regimen. Alternatively, a higher dose of ATD can be maintained, with the addition of levothyroxine to prevent hypothyroidism, known
