Diagnosis and Treatment of Graves’ Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, graves, disease, patients, pubmed, graves disease, treatment, rai, hyperthyroidism, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, therapy, free, atds


dose can be reduced to avoid hypothyroidism, in a dose titration regimen. Alternatively, a higher dose of ATD can be maintained, with the addition of levothyroxine to prevent hypothyroidism, known as a block-replace regimen. There is no convincing evidence that the block-replace regimen gives superior remission rates to titrated ATD treatment, although the incidence of side-effects may be higher ( 15 - 18 ). However, block-replace regimen ATD may still have utility in patients with high concentrations of TRAb antibodies or where there is a mixed population of blocking and stimulating antibodies leading to rapid fluctuations in thyroid hormone levels: typically found in patients with thyroid eye disease or post-alemtuzumab Graves’ disease. Antithyroid drugs are usually administered daily for 12 to 18 months with a remission rate of 50% following this period of treatment being widely quoted ( 4 , 5 , 8 , 9 ). However, success at achieving remission is to a large extent determined by the initial presenting features and by the trajectory of TRAb once ATDs have been commenced. Severe hyperthyroidism, very high TRAb concentrations, young age, and large goiter at presentation have been linked to poor remission rate following ATD in numerous studies (see Table 4 for ‘GREAT’ score) ( 19 , 20 ). Patients with none of these adverse features may expect an approximately 80% chance of remission with ATDs, contrasting to about 30% chance for patients with all 4 adverse factors. Male sex and thyroid eye disease have also been linked to poor outcome of hyperthyroidism in some but not all investigations ( 21 ). In addition to these presenting features, the change in TRAb concentration during ATD treatment also has prognostic significance ( 22 , 23 ). Both European and American guidelines agree that ATDs should not be stopped in patients who continue to have detectable TRAb antibodies following 18 months’ ATD treatment ( 4 , 5 ). Different TRAb trajectories have also been recognized, including smooth disappearance, fluctuating, and smoldering patterns, with the likelihood of remission being substantially lower in patients with the latter 2 trajectories ( 22 , 23 ). Table 4. GREAT Score View in own window Factor Criteria Score Age ≥40 yr 0 <40 yr 1 Free T4 <40pmol/L 0 ≥40pmol/L 1 TRAb <6 IU/L 0 6-19.9 IU/L 1 ≥20 IU/L 2 Goiter Absent/ small 0 Visible/Huge 2 Total GREAT Score Remission at 24 months 0 or 1
