Diagnosis and Treatment of Graves’ Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, graves, disease, patients, pubmed, graves disease, treatment, rai, hyperthyroidism, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, therapy, free, atds


<40pmol/L 0 ≥40pmol/L 1 TRAb <6 IU/L 0 6-19.9 IU/L 1 ≥20 IU/L 2 Goiter Absent/ small 0 Visible/Huge 2 Total GREAT Score Remission at 24 months 0 or 1 84% 2 or 3 56% 4 or more 32% SIDE EFFECTS All thionamide ATDs have the potentially life-threatening side-effect of agranulocytosis, which occurs in one in 300–500 users ( 24 , 25 ). The peak time for agranulocytosis is after one month of treatment (28 to 33 days). The risk declines after six months of treatment but persists for as long as a patient remains on ATD therapy ( 25 , 26 ). ATDs must be stopped immediately if the patient develops fever, sore throat, or other signs of sepsis and an urgent complete blood count must be ordered. In around 10% of cases of agranulocytosis, there will be associated thrombocytopenia and/or aplastic anemia ( 24 - 26 ). Even if ATDs are stopped promptly, there may be a 5-to-7-day interval before neutrophil counts recover, and management with isolation, prophylactic parenteral antibiotics, and granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) may be needed. As there is cross reactivity between methimazole/carbimazole and propylthiouracil, the patient should never receive thionamide medication again. In some cases of ATD-induced agranulocytosis, there are detectable circulating anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA) directed at the myeloperoxidase enzyme which has structural homology to the extracellular domain of the TPO molecule, suggesting an immune basis ( 27 ). A plan for control of thyrotoxicosis should be hatched as soon as agranulocytosis presents, as the combination of prolonged sepsis and concurrent uncontrolled hyperthyroidism increases the risk of thyroid storm. Agranulocytosis is fortunately rare, however rash and pruritus on the trunk and arms is the commonest side effects of methimazole/carbimazole and may occur in around 5% of users ( 26 ). This usually occurs in the first few weeks of treatment and is self-limiting in most cases: symptomatic management with antihistamine and topical emollient or hydrocortisone cream may be effective. In some patients a swap to propylthiouracil may be warranted if the symptoms persist. Gastritis with immediate vomiting is also sometimes seen with carbimazole and methimazole: splitting the daily dose from once daily into several smaller doses (e.g. from 20 mg once daily to 5 mg taken four times a day) can often be effective. Although rash and gastritis appear less frequently with propylthiouracil, around one in 10,000 adults develop potentially life-threatening hepatotoxicity with
