Diagnosis and Treatment of Graves’ Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, graves, disease, patients, pubmed, graves disease, treatment, rai, hyperthyroidism, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, therapy, free, atds


5 mg taken four times a day) can often be effective. Although rash and gastritis appear less frequently with propylthiouracil, around one in 10,000 adults develop potentially life-threatening hepatotoxicity with it. The incidence in children and younger people may be as much as one in 2,000, so propylthiouracil should be avoided in this age group ( 28 ). In contrast, methimazole and carbimazole may cause an isolated but stable elevation in serum alkaline phosphatase up to around 2.5 times the upper limit of normal, with no apparent other detrimental effect on liver function. In addition, acute pancreatitis has rarely been reported with both methimazole and carbimazole ( 29 ). Although all ATDs may cause arthralgia, propylthiouracil may rarely cause vasculitis or be responsible for drug-induced lupus ( 27 ). Risks to the fetus of ATDs during pregnancy are discussed elsewhere. LONGER-TERM TREATMENT After an initial period of 12–18 months of treatment with ATDs, around 50% of adult patients will relapse within one to 2 years and the preferred next step in therapy has conventionally been either RAI therapy or surgical thyroidectomy ( 4 , 5 , 8 , 9 ). However, at this stage, many patients prefer the option of either a second course or long-term ATDs ( 12 ). There are no high-quality randomized studies to inform treatment decisions in this situation, but observational retrospective studies suggest that the outcome of a second course of ATDs is not significantly different from that of the first course, i.e. a remission rate of about 30–50% ( 23 , 30 ). However, such studies do not take into account those patients who had severe symptoms at relapse, complications of relapsed hyperthyroidism (e.g. atrial fibrillation), side effects from ATDs, or large goiter who then chose definitive management; therefore, interpretation must be guarded. There are two randomized trials of short-term vs longer term antithyroid drug treatment. A French study found no difference in remission rates when comparing 18 and 42 months ATD treatment ( 31 ). A larger Iranian study showed a benefit to ATD treatment for an average of 8 years compared to 19 months ( 32 ). However, interpretation of this study is compromised by twice the baseline prevalence of large goiter in the short-term ATD group ( 32 ). In short, these randomized studies show no conclusive benefit from long-term ATD treatment, and the non-randomized studies are likely biased by selection
