Diagnosis and Treatment of Graves’ Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, graves, disease, patients, pubmed, graves disease, treatment, rai, hyperthyroidism, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, therapy, free, atds


in the short-term ATD group ( 32 ). In short, these randomized studies show no conclusive benefit from long-term ATD treatment, and the non-randomized studies are likely biased by selection of uncomplicated and milder cases for ongoing ATD treatment. Nevertheless, patients often prefer to persevere with long-term low-dose ATDs, which is an acceptable option. In patients who have successful long-term remission of hyperthyroidism following ATDs, there is a continuing risk of hypothyroidism as destructive autoimmune thyroiditis may persist for decades, leading to eventual thyroid failure ( 33 ). This risk is between 10 and 25% dependent on the length of follow up ( 33 , 34 ). Because of the insidious onset of hypothyroidism with non-specific symptoms, annual serum TSH measurement is recommended even following apparently successful primary treatment of Graves’ disease with ATD. Non-Thionamide Medical Therapy Patients with symptomatic tachycardia including tachyarrhythmia or tremor can gain rapid control of these symptoms with oral beta blockers. While historically propranolol has been favored owing to its action of inhibiting T4 to T3 conversion, which leads to a small reduction in serum T3 ( 35 ), any beta blocker including cardio-selective compounds are efficacious. Patients who are hyperthyroid may metabolize beta blockers more rapidly than euthyroid patients, so doses of modified-release propranolol up to 80 mg twice or three times daily may be needed to control tachycardia in severe hyperthyroidism. Asthma is a contra-indication to beta blocker usage, but in this situation rate-limiting calcium channel blockers such as diltiazem may be used instead. For more rapid control of thyrotoxicosis than can be achieved with thionamides alone, inorganic iodide, given as Lugol’s iodine or a saturated solution of potassium iodide (SSKI) can be used. These solutions are administered 0.1–0.3 ml three or four times daily and typically result in normalization of serum free T3 within 5 to 7 days through the Plummer effect ( 36 ). In addition, cholestyramine or other bile acid sequestrants may lead to improvement in thyrotoxicosis by reducing the enterohepatic re-circulation of thyroid hormones. While iodide and cholestyramine should not be routinely employed in management of Graves’ hyperthyroidism, they can be effective interventions either individually or in combination for patients who need rapid control of thyrotoxicosis owing to cardiac decompensation, the need for urgent surgery, or thyroid storm ( 36 ). Lithium carbonate is also effective in reducing thyroid hormone levels in hyperthyroidism by inhibiting thyroid hormone secretion, but
