Diagnosis and Treatment of Graves’ Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, graves, disease, patients, pubmed, graves disease, treatment, rai, hyperthyroidism, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, therapy, free, atds


decompensation, the need for urgent surgery, or thyroid storm ( 36 ). Lithium carbonate is also effective in reducing thyroid hormone levels in hyperthyroidism by inhibiting thyroid hormone secretion, but its effect is slower than that of iodide, taking 7 to 14 days for significant reduction in thyroid hormones. A starting dose of 600–800 mg has been shown to be effective, with serum monitoring of lithium concentrations if the patient is to have a prolonged course ( 37 ). It has the advantage of not blocking thyroidal iodide uptake, so may be used in the run up to RAI therapy ( 38 ). Radioiodine Radioiodine ( 131 iodine) therapy has been used to treat benign thyroid disease for more than 80 years. This treatment is well tolerated and cost effective in comparison with other treatment modalities. In most parts of the world, thionamide ATDs are used as the first-line treatment for Graves’ disease. In the United States, RAI has historically been the preferred therapy, but in the last decade, there has been an increasing trend towards first-line ATD use ( 12 ). Several predictive markers of relapse following ATD have been identified as discussed above ( Table 4 ) ( 19 - 21 , 39 , 40 ), and considering these factors, the UK guidance on the assessment and management of thyroid disease (NICE guideline NG145) has recommended RAI as the first-line, definitive therapy in adults, unless ATDs are likely to achieve remission or there are contradictions to RAI ( 1 ). The principle being that patients who are highly likely to relapse after ATDs should be offered early definitive therapy. RAI therapy is the preferred choice of treatment for Graves’ disease if the patient is keen to have definitive control of hyperthyroidism and would like to avoid the risks related to thyroid surgery. Patients who have higher surgical risk from comorbidities, previous neck surgery, or prior external-beam irradiation to the neck should also consider RAI. In some special circumstances such as thyrotoxic hypokalemic periodic paralysis, uncontrolled tachyarrhythmia, congestive heart failure or pulmonary hypertension with right heart failure, where rapid control of hyperthyroidism without the risk of anesthesia and surgery is required, primary RAI following a few weeks of ATD is the preferred option. RAI therapy is contraindicated in pregnancy, during breast feeding, or if pregnancy is planned within the next 4 to 6 months ( Table 5 ). RAI
