Diagnosis and Treatment of Graves’ Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, graves, disease, patients, pubmed, graves disease, treatment, rai, hyperthyroidism, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, therapy, free, atds


is the preferred option. RAI therapy is contraindicated in pregnancy, during breast feeding, or if pregnancy is planned within the next 4 to 6 months ( Table 5 ). RAI should not be offered to a patient who has suspected or untreated thyroid cancer, or who is unable to comply with radiation protection safety measures, which—at lower RAI activities than those used for thyroid cancer—show surprisingly wide variation between countries. Conception should be postponed until at least 6 months after RAI for females, and 4-6 months for males, according to local guidance. Table 5. Precautions and Restrictions for Therapeutic Radioiodine View in own window Contra-indicated during pregnancy or lactation Avoid pregnancy for 6 months (woman) Avoid fathering a child for 4 months (man) Avoid in active Thyroid eye disease, cigarette users, or consider administering under prednisolone cover. Social contact Contact with children or pregnant women RAI is given as a single dose of 131- iodine in liquid or capsule form. It is rapidly absorbed and concentrated by the thyroid gland, with 90% of the remaining radioactive substance cleared by the kidneys. Clearance of RAI is reduced in patients with renal failure and for patients on dialysis, for whom special care and RAI dose adjustment are required ( 41 ). Patients are advised not to consume supplements containing iodine or seaweed for at least 7 days before RAI therapy ( 42 ). TREATMENT REGIMEN RAI is taken up by the sodium-iodide symporter into thyroid cells and in part organified into thyroglobulin. Once trapped inside the thyroid follicle, the beta particles emitted by the RAI damage the DNA of the thyroid follicular cells, leading to apoptosis. The goal of RAI therapy in Graves ‘disease is to control hyperthyroidism by rendering the patient hypothyroid. Historically, clinicians aimed to find the lowest RAI activity needed to render patients euthyroid, as per ALARA (as low as reasonably achievable) principles of radiation protection, but this did not work well. Hyperthyroidism would often recur and a high proportion of patients required re-treatment. There is no single RAI activity regimen that reliably achieves the optimal outcome of euthyroidism without post-ablative hypothyroidism. Hence, RAI is effective if a sufficient radiation dose is deposited in the thyroid to completely destroy the thyroid gland, where 90% of patients would achieve hypothyroidism within 3 to 12 months after treatment. This outcome can be accomplished equally well by either administering a fixed activity
