Diagnosis and Treatment of Graves’ Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, graves, disease, patients, pubmed, graves disease, treatment, rai, hyperthyroidism, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, therapy, free, atds


the thyroid gland, where 90% of patients would achieve hypothyroidism within 3 to 12 months after treatment. This outcome can be accomplished equally well by either administering a fixed activity or by calculating the activity based on the size of the thyroid and its ability to trap iodine ( 43 ). In general, the use of fixed activity regimens simplifies the treatment approach and saves cost, a position supported by the UK guideline for the last 2 decades ( 1 ). The 2016 American Thyroid Association guidelines recommend sufficient activity of RAI should be administered in a single application, typically a dose of 370–555 MBq (10–15 mCi) as guided by thyroid size, to render the patient with Graves’ disease hypothyroid ( 5 ). The calculation of a therapeutic RAI activity relies on knowing the thyroid size, RAI uptake and the quantity of radiation to be deposited per gram of thyroid tissue ( 44 ). The most frequently used RAI uptake is calculated at 24 hours, and the size of the thyroid is determined by palpation or ultrasound ( 45 ). Randomized controlled trials have not found any clinically significant advantage to calculated RAI activity over a fixed activity of RAI ( 46 , 47 ). Neither is there a reliable method to measure individual RAI dose-response relationship. The use of calculated RAI activity adds to the complexity of the procedure and increases costs related to the additional measurements with thyroid uptake and ultrasound. PRE-TREATMENT WITH ATD RAI induces destruction of thyroid follicles and release of the stored thyroid hormones, which can increase the circulating levels of thyroid hormones. According to a few small, randomized trials, transient exacerbations of thyrotoxicosis were found in <20% of patients who were overtly hyperthyroid before RAI administration; the majority of these were asymptomatic ( 48 - 50 ). In another study, exacerbation of thyrotoxicosis was noticed in 30-50% of the patients 2 to 6 weeks after RAI therapy and was greater in those not pre-treated with ATD ( 51 ). Rarely thyroid storm has been reported following the administration of RAI ( 52 ). While many clinicians pre-treat overtly hyperthyroid patients with ATDs prior to RAI, randomized trials have found that ATDs did not protect against the rise in thyroid hormone levels after RAI ( 48 , 49 ). Pre-treatment with ATDs lowers the free thyroid hormone concentrations, which could protect high risk patients from
