Diagnosis and Treatment of Graves’ Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, graves, disease, patients, pubmed, graves disease, treatment, rai, hyperthyroidism, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, therapy, free, atds


against the rise in thyroid hormone levels after RAI ( 48 , 49 ). Pre-treatment with ATDs lowers the free thyroid hormone concentrations, which could protect high risk patients from developing thyroid storm or other complications such as tachyarrhythmia from worsening thyrotoxicosis after RAI. The American, European and the UK guidelines recommend clinicians consider the use of ATDs before RAI to make this treatment safer and to reduce the risk of symptomatic thyrotoxicosis ( 1 , 4 , 5 ). This is particularly pertinent in patients with severe thyrotoxicosis, usually with free T4 concentration 2–3 times the upper limit of the reference range, or with multiple comorbidities and a greater risk for complications from worsening hyperthyroidism. This includes patients with atrial fibrillation, heart failure, pulmonary hypertension, renal failure, cerebrovascular, or pulmonary disease. Along with ATDs, beta blockers should be prescribed in symptomatic or high-risk patients prior to RAI and this medication should be tapered down once circulating levels of thyroid hormones return to the reference range. ATDs reduce intra-thyroidal uptake of RAI and hence pre-treatment with ATD increases the risk of treatment failure. Carbimazole or methimazole should be discontinued 4 to 7 days before the administration of RAI. Pre-treatment with propylthiouracil has been shown to have a higher rate of treatment failure as compared to carbimazole or methimazole ( 53 ). Therefore, propylthiouracil should be discontinued 10-14 days before the administration of RAI. Patients with high concentrations of TRAb have an increased risk of symptomatic or severe hyperthyroidism following RAI ( 52 ), as the destructive effect of RAI on thyrocytes will take a few weeks to commence, while TRAb continues to drive thyroid hormone production in the absence of ATDs. ATD should be restarted 7 to 14 days after RAI in this group of patients, to ensure continuous depletion of intrathyroidal hormones. In one study, if ATD was restarted 7 days after RAI, the free T4 measured 3 weeks after RAI was 6% lower than at the time of RAI administration; and if ATD was not restarted after RAI, the free T4 was 36% higher than the values at the time of RAI administration ( 54 ). Pre-treatment with ATDs had no effect on either the time required for hypothyroidism or the 1-year success rate of RAI ( 55 ). POST RAI MANAGEMENT The recommended fixed activity regimen for RAI in Graves’ disease, in the range of 370–555 MBq
