Diagnosis and Treatment of Graves’ Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, graves, disease, patients, pubmed, graves disease, treatment, rai, hyperthyroidism, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, therapy, free, atds


hypothyroidism or the 1-year success rate of RAI ( 55 ). POST RAI MANAGEMENT The recommended fixed activity regimen for RAI in Graves’ disease, in the range of 370–555 MBq (10–15 mCi), will render 80-90% of patients permanently hypothyroid ( 56 ). Hypothyroidism may occur from 4 weeks on, with 40% of patients being hypothyroid by 8 weeks and a median time for hypothyroidism of 18-20 weeks ( 57 , 58 ). This transition can happen rapidly and hence most guidelines recommend measuring of TSH, free T4 and free T3 (or total T3) levels every 4 to 6 weeks for the first 6 months following RAI ( 5 , 6 ). Every effort should be made to avoid patients becoming symptomatically hypothyroid during this transitional phase by timely introduction of thyroid hormone replacement. Circulating levels of thyroid hormones should be used to guide the start of thyroid hormone replacement therapy, as serum TSH levels may not rise immediately after RAI. When thyroid hormone replacement is initiated, the dose should be initially adjusted based on serum free T4 concentration. Transient or fluctuating hypothyroidism immediately following RAI therapy occurs in 2-5% of patients given lower activities (e.g. ~200 MBq or 5 mCi), with subsequent recovery of thyroid function or recurrent hyperthyroidism ( 59 ). Thyroid hormone replacement is generally recommended even if transient hypothyroidism is possible, to avoid the development of, or a flare-up of Graves’ orbitopathy. Thyroid hormone replacement can be gradually weaned and discontinued, if serum monitoring suggests recovery of thyroid function or recurrent hyperthyroidism. In patients who maintain euthyroidism a year or more following RAI, lifelong annual thyroid function monitoring is recommended, as the risk of hypothyroidism persists, at a yearly rate of 3-5% ( 60 ). For patients established on thyroid hormone replacement, lifelong serum TSH monitoring is recommended at least annually, to ensure adequate thyroid hormone replacement. Hypothyroidism or euthyroidism is usually achieved within 3 to 12 months of RAI therapy ( 57 , 58 ). Persistent hyperthyroidism beyond 6 to 12 months following RAI therapy suggests treatment failure and retreatment with RAI should be considered. The goal of re-treatment is to achieve a remission rate of 99%. Surgical management should be considered if patients are refractory to multiple courses of RAI. LONG-TERM OUTCOMES RAI is a safe treatment with no significant long term detrimental effects from the modest doses of RAI administered for Graves’ disease, in
