Diagnosis and Treatment of Graves’ Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, graves, disease, patients, pubmed, graves disease, treatment, rai, hyperthyroidism, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, therapy, free, atds


to multiple courses of RAI. LONG-TERM OUTCOMES RAI is a safe treatment with no significant long term detrimental effects from the modest doses of RAI administered for Graves’ disease, in particular on long term fertility or cancer risk, which are common patient concerns. The offspring of treated patients show no increased risk of congenital defects compared to the untreated population ( 61 , 62 ). Cancer Risk RAI thyroid ablation is achieved by the ionizing beta radiation that leads to genetic damage and apoptotic cell death of thyrocytes. This raises an important question of whether RAI carries a subsequent risk of cancer development in thyroid and other organs. RAI therapy for thyroid cancer, which typically involves activities 2 to 10-fold higher than for thyrotoxicosis, has been associated with an increased risk of subsequent malignant neoplasms, especially among younger patients. A large study involving 27,050 people with more than 40 years of follow-up found that RAI therapy for differentiated thyroid cancer among people younger than 45 years old was associated with 23% increased risk of solid cancer and 92% increased risk of leukemia, relative to those who did not receive RAI therapy ( 63 ). However, the administered activities of RAI were substantially higher than those used in hyperthyroidism. Furthermore, a large population-based study involving 7417 patients treated for hyperthyroidism in the UK, with 72,073 person-years of follow-up, showed a decrease in overall cancer incidence and mortality in those treated for hyperthyroidism with RAI ( 64 ). In another study that included 107 patients treated with RAI before the age of 20 for hyperthyroidism, no increased risk of cancer was seen following 36 years of follow-up ( 65 ). The 24-year extension of the large multi-center Cooperative Thyrotoxicosis Therapy Follow-up Study has been following US and UK patients diagnosed and treated for hyperthyroidism with RAI, ATDs, or thyroid surgery, for nearly 7 decades. This study showed no significant increased risk of death or solid cancer mortality across treated groups, when compared with an external cohort of patients without hyperthyroidism ( 66 ). However, there was a modest positive association between total administered RAI activity and solid cancer mortality in patients treated with RAI, suggesting a potential dose-dependent association between total administered RAI dose and risk of death from solid cancer in patients treated with RAI ( 66 , 67 ). Taking into account this study and previous reassuring studies, two recent
