Diagnosis and Treatment of Graves’ Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, graves, disease, patients, pubmed, graves disease, treatment, rai, hyperthyroidism, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, therapy, free, atds


RAI dose and risk of death from solid cancer in patients treated with RAI ( 66 , 67 ). Taking into account this study and previous reassuring studies, two recent meta-analyses did not find any association between RAI and the risk of incident cancer or cancer mortality in patients with hyperthyroidism ( 68 , 69 ). Reassuringly, the current body of evidence does not show an increased risk of malignant neoplasm in patients treated with RAI for benign thyroid disease. Weight Gain After RAI Many patients are concerned about the risk of weight gain after receiving RAI for Graves’ disease. Weight loss is a common symptom in majority of patients with Graves’ disease. Hyperthyroidism is associated with alterations in satiety signals and increased resting energy expenditure with expected restoration of weight to pre-morbid status when patients are rendered euthyroid. However, there is emerging evidence suggesting that the weight increase following treatment of hyperthyroidism may exceed the pre-morbid weight status. One of the large prospective cohort studies shows that men were 1.7 times and women were 1.3 times more likely to develop obesity after receiving ATDs or RAI for hyperthyroidism, as compared to the general population ( 70 ). Weight gain occurred mostly in the first 6 months of treatment but continued until 24 months. Men gained on average 8 kg and women gained about 5.5 kg. When compared with patients treated with ATDs, RAI was associated with additional weight gain of 1.8 kg for patients who develop hypothyroidism and 0.2 kg for those without ( 70 ). A systematic review of 9 studies with a total of 1273 patients found that RAI is associated with significant weight gain ( 71 ). There was a 5-6 kg gain in weight over 6 months to 1-year post-treatment, and approximately 7 kg over 2 years. It is important to note that there was large inter-individual variability with regards to post-RAI weight trajectory. Most of the studies were retrospective in design and post-treatment weight gain was compared with patient weight at presentation, rather than premorbid body weight. Therefore, although it is probable that weight gain after RAI often exceeds premorbid body weight, direct evidence is not yet available. Several risk factors for excessive weight gain after treatment for hyperthyroidism have been identified, including pre-existing obesity, the diagnosis of Graves’ disease, more severe hyperthyroidism at presentation, and hypothyroidism or thyroid hormone replacement therapy after treatment
