Diagnosis and Treatment of Graves’ Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, graves, disease, patients, pubmed, graves disease, treatment, rai, hyperthyroidism, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, therapy, free, atds


gain after treatment for hyperthyroidism have been identified, including pre-existing obesity, the diagnosis of Graves’ disease, more severe hyperthyroidism at presentation, and hypothyroidism or thyroid hormone replacement therapy after treatment ( 72 ). Avoidance of hypothyroidism after treatment could be a key factor to reduce the risk of excessive weight gain after treatment for hyperthyroidism. One small interventional study indicated that dietary interventions may be useful in preventing excessive weight gain, but larger and better-designed studies are required to confirm the finding ( 73 ). PATIENT ACEPTABILITY OF RAI AND SHARED DECISION MAKING RAI is generally well received by patients with Graves’ disease. The treatment decision is affected by patient preference, comorbidities, pregnancy plan, and presence of active Graves’ orbitopathy. In view of the above considerations, a patient, shared-decision making model is particularly suited for choosing the most appropriate treatment, incorporating the most up to date scientific information, specific patient circumstances, and patient preferences ( 74 ). However, the process of shared decision-making requires optimal ability of the patient to judge the benefits and downsides of each treatment choice, which may be compromised by the thyrotoxic state. It may therefore be necessary to render the patient euthyroid using ATD before a firm shared decision about definitive treatment can be implemented. A comprehensive care plan that matches the patient’s needs will influence quality of life and patient satisfaction for years after the treatment. A few small studies have shown that satisfaction was generally high across ATDs, RAI, and thyroid surgery, if patients feel involved in the decision-making process ( 75 , 76 ). The most important factors affecting the patient’s treatment choices are the remission rate, treatment effects on activities of daily living, concern about use of a radioactive substance, the possibility of depression or anxiety, and doctor’s recommendations ( 76 , 77 ). A study from Rotterdam found that both patients and clinicians preferred ATDs over surgery and RAI. However, patients were more worried about RAI than surgery whereas clinicians preferred RAI over surgery ( 77 ). The differences in the personal attitude toward RAI between clinicians and patients should be taken into consideration in the shared decision-making process ( 78 ). Graves’ disease is associated with worse quality of life (QoL) many years after treatment, as compared to the general population. A randomized, prospective study has shown that patients treated for Graves’ disease still had decreased QoL 17–21 years
