Diagnosis and Treatment of Graves’ Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, graves, disease, patients, pubmed, graves disease, treatment, rai, hyperthyroidism, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, therapy, free, atds


life (QoL) many years after treatment, as compared to the general population. A randomized, prospective study has shown that patients treated for Graves’ disease still had decreased QoL 17–21 years later compared to the general population ( 79 ). However, the general QoL in patients treated for Graves’ disease, as measured by the 36-item Short Form Health Status survey (SF-36) in a few randomized studies, was similar across ATD, RAI, or surgery groups ( 40 , 79 ). In 2019, Torring et al. found a contrary result after assessing QoL using the disease-specific questionnaire, ThyPRO ( 80 ). The ThyPRO questionnaire is highly relevant to the experiences of patients with Graves’ disease and is designed to detect changes over time. This large non-randomized cohort study involving 1186 patients showed that quality of life scores were worse in patients with Graves’ disease treated with RAI therapy, compared to ATDs or surgery at 6-10 years after treatment. The RAI therapy group had worse scores for goiter symptoms, hyperthyroid symptoms, tiredness, anxiety, depression, emotional susceptibility, impaired social life, impaired daily life, and impaired sex life than the ATD and surgery groups. This study had a larger number of participants and a longer duration of follow-up than previous studies, However, more patients in the RAI group had comorbidities that may have affected quality of life. If this finding is substantiated in future studies, RAI may become less desirable as a treatment option for patients with Graves’ disease. Thyroidectomy Surgical thyroidectomy is an effective approach for the management of Graves’ hyperthyroidism and is particularly suitable for some patients, such as those with a large goiter. Owing to the cumulative risk of recurrent thyrotoxicosis over time that is associated with subtotal thyroidectomy, the surgical approach for Graves’ disease should be total thyroidectomy, meaning that lifelong hypothyroidism with the need for levothyroxine replacement is the inevitable outcome of a successful operation. In a patient with Graves’ disease, thyroidectomy should be considered in patients with the following features: Large goiter. Co-existing cytologically or sonographically suspicious or malignant thyroid nodule. Intolerance or serious adverse reaction to ATDs. High circulating TRAb concentration (e.g. >5 times upper limit of reference range). Active thyroid eye disease. Pre-operative preparation is necessary, usually with ATDs, to ensure that the patient is euthyroid at the time of surgery, in order to minimize the risk of bleeding from a vascular gland with uncontrolled hyperthyroidism or post-operative
