Diagnosis and Treatment of Graves’ Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, graves, disease, patients, pubmed, graves disease, treatment, rai, hyperthyroidism, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, therapy, free, atds


ATDs, to ensure that the patient is euthyroid at the time of surgery, in order to minimize the risk of bleeding from a vascular gland with uncontrolled hyperthyroidism or post-operative thyroid storm. In the case of urgent surgery in a hyperthyroid patient, preparation with iodine/iodide solutions (Lugol or SSKI) may be necessary ( 81 ). Oral cholecystographic contrast agents, ipodate or iopanoic acid are also effective in rapidly controlling thyrotoxicosis but are not freely available in many countries. In addition, there is data to support reduced blood loss during elective surgery following routine preoperative use of iodide preparations ( 81 ). In common with all operative procedures, risks include infection, bleeding, keloid or hypertrophic scar formation; the latter being of concern to patients where a good cosmetic outcome is seen as highly desirable. In addition, inadvertent removal, damage or devascularization of parathyroid glands may lead to transient hypocalcemia and more rarely permanent hypoparathyroidism in less than 2% of cases ( 82 ). It is important to optimize vitamin D status prior to surgery, as insufficiency may exacerbate postoperative hypocalcemia and render it refractory to treatment. Damage to the recurrent laryngeal nerve may result in change of voice quality or even vocal cord paresis. Inability to project the voice or shout may also result from damage to the external branch of the superior laryngeal nerve. Laryngeal nerve monitoring using a modified endotracheal tube containing sensing electrodes is used by many surgeons. The experience of the surgeon is a critical factor in complications following thyroidectomy, with a high-volume for thyroid surgery being a key predictor of a high-quality surgical outcome. A UK survey showed that surgeons performing more than 50 thyroidectomies annually had lower complication rates than those with less operative throughput ( 82 ). Post-operative bleeding into the thyroid bed has an incidence of 1 to 2% of operations ( 83 ), and it can lead to asphyxiation through airway obstruction or neurological sequelae if there is compression of the neck vessels. Immediate decompression by removing neck sutures or staples and manual evacuation of the hematoma followed by local pressure to control bleeding and airway management may be needed as an emergency at the bedside (see Figure 2 for ‘SCOOP’ protocol) ( 83 ). Although some centers routinely perform day case thyroidectomy surgery with good results ( 84 ), this rare risk of compressive post-operative hematoma cannot be entirely avoided, limiting
