Diagnosis and Treatment of Graves’ Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, graves, disease, patients, pubmed, graves disease, treatment, rai, hyperthyroidism, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, therapy, free, atds


( 83 ). Although some centers routinely perform day case thyroidectomy surgery with good results ( 84 ), this rare risk of compressive post-operative hematoma cannot be entirely avoided, limiting its applicability. The American Thyroid Association has made recommendations about patients for whom day case surgery is inadvisable ( 85 ), including significant comorbidity, residing in a location remote from healthcare provision, an adverse social setting or lack of a willing caregiver. Figure 2. SCOOP post-thyroidectomy protocol. Wound swelling associated with tachypnea, reduced oxygen saturation, stridor or noisy breathing should lead to should lead to emergency action ( 83 ). Swelling of the thyroidectomy wound postoperatively with airway compromise. Clear/Cut steri strips or sutures. Open skin and /or platysma stitches. Probe wound by finger or suction to release clots. Owing to patient concerns about having a visible scar in the anterior neck following thyroidectomy, different surgical approaches have been developed over recent years ( 86 ). Initial procedures included open or endoscopic lateral neck, submental, or axillary approaches. More recently, trans-oral approaches through the vestibular area have been developed and operating robotics employed. Apart from the usual risks of thyroidectomy, tumor seeding to the operative access route is a potential limitation for these procedures in patients who have thyroid cancer, but this caution is not relevant to most patients with uncomplicated Graves’ disease. These approaches are likely to increase in popularity in the future as surgical expertise with endoscopic and robotic approaches improves. Immunomodulatory Approaches Graves’ disease is an autoimmune condition that arises because of the loss of immunological tolerance to the TSH receptor ( 87 ). It is characterized by the production of stimulatory autoantibodies, generated by plasma cells, which are terminally differentiated B lymphocytes. The pathological immune response involves not only B cells but also T lymphocytes and antigen-presenting cells within the thyroid and adjacent lymphoid tissues. Unlike type 1 diabetes, where beta-cell destruction is typically advanced at presentation, the symptoms of Graves’ disease are due to hyperfunction and some patients achieve long-term remission with normal thyroid function following a course of ATD therapy. This suggests that immunological tolerance to thyroid antigens can, in some cases, be restored. ATDs such as thionamides also possess intrinsic immunomodulatory properties, including reduction of thyroid autoantibody levels, modulation of thyroid antigen structure, and inhibition of pro-inflammatory cytokine release and T lymphocyte activity ( 88 ). The combined use of modern immunomodulatory treatments
