Diagnosis and Treatment of Graves’ Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, graves, disease, patients, pubmed, graves disease, treatment, rai, hyperthyroidism, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, therapy, free, atds


have evaluated RTX in Graves’ orbitopathy: Salvi et al. reported a significant improvement in clinical activity scores in patients treated with RTX ( 91 ). By contrast, Stan et al. found no significant benefit, potentially due to longer disease duration among participants ( 92 ). A recent pilot study evaluated the safety and efficacy of RTX in 27 adolescents and young adults (aged 12–20 years) with Graves’ disease. Participants received a single dose of RTX in combination with standard ATD therapy. One year after stopping ATD, 48% of patients remained in remission, compared to the 20–30% typically observed over 1–3 years following standard therapy alone ( 93 ). The treatment was well tolerated, and no serious adverse events were reported. IMMUNOGLOBULIN-DEPLETING APPROACHES With TRAb having a central role in the pathogenesis of Graves’ hyperthyroidism, methods to deplete these pathogenic antibodies are being actively investigated. The neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) is responsible for recycling circulating Immunoglobulin G (IgG) in the circulation as well as transmitting IgGs across the placenta to the fetus. Blocking FcRn action using monoclonal antibody approaches leads to reductions in serum IgGs, including TRAb by around 70%, while leaving serum IgA and IgM concentrations unchanged. One FcRn blocker, batoclimab, has shown promise in Graves’ orbitopathy during early phase trials ( 94 ). Similar compounds are already licensed for use in myasthenia gravis and other antibody-mediated autoimmune disorders. DIRECT MODULATORS OF TSHR SIGNALING There is growing focus on TSHR–specific treatment modalities as these have the practical advantage of offering a targeted, thyroid-specific approach, whilst minimizing disruption to the immune system. Examples of specific TSHR modulation include the use of small molecule antagonists or antagonistic TSHR monoclonal antibodies, which lock the TSHR into an inactive conformation. One such antagonistic (blocking) TSHR antibody known as K1-70 has been used in two early-phase trials with promising results ( 95 , 96 ). In contrast, small molecule TSHR antagonists must be selective for the TSHR over the homologous LH/HCGR and FSHR to avoid reproductive toxicity, and such compounds have yet to be tested in human to our knowledge ( 97 , 98 ). The introduction of novel therapeutics may lead to euthyroidism without the need for lifelong/definitive treatment and thus transform the treatment landscape in Graves’ disease ( 99 ). The potential risks of immune compromise and cost implications mean that further work is needed in this area before these are routinely used
