Diagnosis and Treatment of Graves’ Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, graves, disease, patients, pubmed, graves disease, treatment, rai, hyperthyroidism, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, therapy, free, atds


landscape in Graves’ disease ( 99 ). The potential risks of immune compromise and cost implications mean that further work is needed in this area before these are routinely used in clinical care. Minimally Invasive Approaches Two principal minimally invasive techniques have been applied to the treatment of Graves’ disease, namely thermal / radiofrequency ablation and thyroid arterial embolization. These procedures are claimed to have some advantages over traditional therapies for Graves’ disease, especially thyroidectomy, based on speedier recovery, repeatability, better cosmetic outcome and greater cost-effectiveness ( 100 , 101 ). Experience is limited, however, and no current guideline recommends these treatments for Graves’ disease. THERMAL AND RADIOFREQUENCY ABLATION Observational studies of 30-50 patients have shown a remission rate at 1-2 years of 57–96% but patients often required more than one procedure ( 101 , 102 ). Minor complications including pain, swelling, and hematoma were observed in up to 20% of patients. THYROID ARTERIAL EMBOLIZATION Small series of patients (n=16-27) receiving thyroid arterial embolization have been reported ( 103 , 104 ). The remission rate at 27 months to 3 years was 59-100%. No complications were reported by one study ( 103 ). Minimally invasive approaches to the treatment of Graves’ disease are feasible and seem to be safe. However, efficacy does not seem to be superior compared to other conventional treatments, and long-term outcome data are lacking. Their place in the routine management of patients with Graves’ disease is currently unclear. MANAGEMENT OF GRAVES’ HYPERTHYROIDISM IN SPECIAL SITUATIONS Subclinical Hyperthyroidism Subclinical hyperthyroidism (SH), defined by a low serum TSH, in conjunction with FT3 and FT4 levels within the reference range, is more common in women than in men (female: male ratio = 1.5: 1) and its incidence increases with advancing age. The Colorado Thyroid Disease Prevalence Study reported that 1 to 2% of women over the age of 60 had SH (TSH <0.3 mU/l) ( 105 ) whilst the NHANESIII survey, using a TSH threshold of <0.4 mU/L, found that SH was even more common in advanced age, affecting 3% of people over the age of 80 ( 106 ). SH is heterogeneous from the biochemical point of view, with about three quarters of individuals having a serum TSH between 0.1 and 0.4 mU/L, termed grade 1 SH, and the remainder having a suppressed TSH concentration, below 0.1 mU/l (Grade 2 SH) ( 107 ). This is an important
