Diagnosis and Treatment of Graves’ Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, graves, disease, patients, pubmed, graves disease, treatment, rai, hyperthyroidism, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, therapy, free, atds


between 0.1 and 0.4 mU/L, termed grade 1 SH, and the remainder having a suppressed TSH concentration, below 0.1 mU/l (Grade 2 SH) ( 107 ). This is an important distinction as it predicts outcome. In a UK study of 44 patients who had Graves’ disease confirmed by positive serum TRAb and serum TSH below reference range but normal free thyroid hormones (i.e. both grades of SH), 34% had developed overt hyperthyroidism within 3 years ( 108 ). Approximately one third had persistent biochemical SH and TSH normalized in a third. Ultimate euthyroidism was most frequent in those with initial grade 1 SH. In contrast, a study of 110 Japanese Graves’ disease patients with SH defined by TSH <0.1 mU/L (grade 2) showed that 63% had progressed to overt hyperthyroidism by the end of observation ( 109 ). Whether to treat SH in patients with positive TRAb is dependent on symptoms, co-morbidity, and risk of progression ( 4 , 5 , 107 ). In the presence of tachyarrhythmia or unexplained weight loss, treatment would be strongly favored, particularly if serum TRAb concentration was high (e.g. ≥5 IU/L), TSH was <0.05 mU/L and the patient was ≥65 years of age. However, in an asymptomatic patient with a TSH in the 0.1–0.4 mU/L range, observation with repeat measurement of serum free T3 and free T4 in 3 to 6 months would be proportionate to the risk, as spontaneous normalization of TSH may occur. If treatment is considered, low dose ATD are favored, as the chances of long-term remission are high ( 4 , 5 , 107 ). Graves’ Orbitopathy Out of control thyroid function, either hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism, in a treated Graves’ patient is associated with severe Graves’ orbitopathy and worse ophthalmic outcomes, if untreated ( 110 ). Therefore, rapid establishment and maintenance of euthyroidism is important and should be supervised by an endocrinologist. ATDs, thyroidectomy, and RAI are effective in achieving this goal. Evidence from randomized studies ( 111 , 112 ), supported by meta-analyses ( 113 , 114 ) indicate that RAI is associated with a small (approximately 15% over 24 months) risk of exacerbation of Graves’ orbitopathy. This risk seems to be almost negligible for patients with inactive Graves’ orbitopathy, provided a euthyroid status is preserved ( 115 ). However, in patients receiving RAI for relapse of hyperthyroidism after initial ATD, risk of orbitopathy may increase over an extended
