Diagnosis and Treatment of Graves’ Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, graves, disease, patients, pubmed, graves disease, treatment, rai, hyperthyroidism, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, therapy, free, atds


orbitopathy, provided a euthyroid status is preserved ( 115 ). However, in patients receiving RAI for relapse of hyperthyroidism after initial ATD, risk of orbitopathy may increase over an extended time to around 25% ( 116 ). Current consensus is to manage the hyperthyroidism of patients with Graves’ orbitopathy with ATDs as the principal choice ( 117 - 119 ), unless there are contraindications (agranulocytosis, other significant side-effects). RAI is also an option, with or without cover from a course of oral steroids (prednisolone 0.16-0.5 mg/kg daily, tapering and withdrawing after 6-12 weeks) ( 111 , 120 ) which prevents exacerbation of Graves’ orbitopathy, especially in patients with moderate to severe eye disease of recent onset and with risk factors for progression. Thyroidectomy is also appropriate when the patient has a large symptomatic goiter, there are difficulties in achieving euthyroidism, or suspicion of malignancy. For most cases however, when ATDs are well tolerated, they can be continued beyond two years and until the thyroid eye disease is inactive. Diagnosis and Treatment of Graves’ Disease in the Young Graves’ disease is particularly challenging to manage in the young person. The diagnosis can easily be overlooked and the effects of thyroid hormone excess prior to treatment can have a long-lasting impact on education and neurodevelopment. Autoimmune diseases tend to be more severe in the young and the autoimmune process is more resistant to intervention ( 121 ). The severity of the underlying thyroid hormone excess at presentation is more profound than in adults and a course of ATD therapy is less likely to result in long term remission. Side-effects of ATDs are more likely to occur ( 18 ) and therapeutic options are more limited, particularly in the younger child. BACKGROUND The incidence of childhood hyperthyroidism appears to be increasing in some populations with figures ranging from 1.58 to 6.5 per 100,000 reported in Danish, Swedish, and Chinese populations ( 122 - 124 ). The peak incidence of Graves’ disease in childhood occurs around 12-13 years of age and whilst there is a marked female preponderance in adolescence, the sex difference in very young children is less profound ( 121 , 122 ). PRESENTATION The young patient with Graves’ disease can be referred to a variety of different health professionals including cardiologists, gastroenterologists, and psychologists. Many children do not demonstrate significant weight loss and issues such as anxiety can be misattributed to
