Diagnosis and Treatment of Graves’ Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, graves, disease, patients, pubmed, graves disease, treatment, rai, hyperthyroidism, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, therapy, free, atds


referred to a variety of different health professionals including cardiologists, gastroenterologists, and psychologists. Many children do not demonstrate significant weight loss and issues such as anxiety can be misattributed to normal adolescent behavior. Patients frequently do not have a goiter or eye disease that might lead to an earlier presentation or referral. Clinical features such as disrupted sleep and poor concentration prior to diagnosis can disrupt learning and be profoundly detrimental to a child’s education and neurocognitive development ( 125 ). Untreated Graves’ disease can lead to rapid growth and tall stature. BASELINE INVESTIGATIONS Whilst the focus of this chapter is Graves’ disease, children and adolescents can occasionally have other causes of hyperthyroidism such as a toxic nodule or McCune-Albright syndrome (MAS), so a thorough history and examination is important to aid in the differential diagnosis, for example asking about precocious puberty and the presence of café au lait patches if considering MAS and careful thyroid examination for palpation of any discrete nodules (see Table 3 ). Thyroid function tests (TSH, free T4 and free T3) as well as TRAb should be measured at presentation. The classical signature of Graves’ disease is a suppressed serum TSH (below the assay threshold) and the presence of a raised FT3 concentration and elevated TRAb. There is little to be gained by imaging (ultrasonography or a radioisotope uptake scan) unless serum TRAb are absent or the goiter is found to have a nodule or nodules on examination. A low white cell count and raised ALT may be a feature of the underlying disease process. Checking these parameters at baseline will assist in the interpretation of future white cell counts or deranged liver function in the long term. TREATMENT ATD First-line treatment of Graves’ disease in the young is with the ATD methimazole or carbimazole. In mild to moderate thyroid hormone excess a starting dose of 0.15 mg/kg of methimazole or 0.25 mg/kg of carbimazole is appropriate. There is little to be gained by splitting the dose of carbimazole or methimazole into a twice per day or three times per day regimen. Once daily will suffice. Doses of 0.5 mg/kg or 0.75 mg/kg will stop thyroid hormone production in the majority of young patients and can be used even in the case of profound thyroid hormone excess at diagnosis. Propylthiouracil should not be used because of the risk of drug-induced liver failure ( 28 ,
