Diagnosis and Treatment of Graves’ Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, graves, disease, patients, pubmed, graves disease, treatment, rai, hyperthyroidism, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, therapy, free, atds


can be used even in the case of profound thyroid hormone excess at diagnosis. Propylthiouracil should not be used because of the risk of drug-induced liver failure ( 28 , 126 ). As with adults, beta blockers can be used to ease symptoms while ATDs reduce thyroid hormone concentrations down to normal levels. The preferred means of carbimazole or methimazole administration is with a dose titration strategy ( 18 ) although ‘block and replace’ is still used by some pediatricians if the biochemistry is particularly unstable, for example if hyperthyroidism keeps recurring as the dose of ATD is reduced. Families should be informed that it takes 4-6 weeks for thyroid hormone concentrations to normalize. ATD side-effects are more likely in the young and an awareness of what to do in the event of sore throat or fever that signal possible agranulocytosis is crucial. In this scenario children should stop ATDs and have a full blood count checked as soon as possible. Only when agranulocytosis has been excluded can ATDs be recommenced. Excessive weight gain is not uncommon in young people with GD in the months post diagnosis and discussing ways of reducing this likelihood are important ( 127 ). Until relatively recently many young people were simply treated with ATDs for 2-3 years before stopping. Unfortunately, remission rates after this period of ATDs are only approximately 25%. Recent guidance suggests that treatment should ideally be for at least 3 years and there is evidence to suggest that longer courses of ATDs are associated with a greater likelihood of remission. As with adults, a persistently raised TRAb concentration is associated with an increased likelihood of relapse following ATDs. Many clinicians regard a raised serum TRAb titer as a reason for continuing ATD therapy or exploring the role of definitive treatment options. Patients who remain euthyroid for 12 months after ATDs are stopped should continue to have thyroid function monitored at least annually because of the future risk of relapse and also because of the long-term risk of autoimmune hypothyroidism. Definitive Treatment Definitive treatment with surgery or RAI will be required by many young people diagnosed with Graves’ disease. This reflects a number of considerations including: Troublesome side-effects (e.g. rash) linked to ATD therapy that do not settle down. More serious but uncommon side-effects such as agranulocytosis. Reluctance on the part of the young person to take ATDs. This is a relatively
