Diagnosis and Treatment of Graves’ Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, graves, disease, patients, pubmed, graves disease, treatment, rai, hyperthyroidism, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, therapy, free, atds


ATD therapy that do not settle down. More serious but uncommon side-effects such as agranulocytosis. Reluctance on the part of the young person to take ATDs. This is a relatively common concern that may in part reflect the relationship between resolution of the hyperthyroid state and weight gain. Low likelihood of remission following a course of ATDs. Early definitive treatment may be preferred in the case of children with learning difficulties who are unable to reliably report symptoms such as sore throat or fever. Young people wanting a simpler treatment option than ATDs before they move away from home or progress into higher education. Surgery Surgical treatment of Graves’ disease consists of total thyroidectomy and hence thyroid hormone replacement will be required after the procedure. Partial thyroidectomy is not recommended because of the likelihood of persistent or recurrent hyperthyroidism. Thyroidectomy needs to be undertaken by a surgeon with appropriate expertise who performs the operation regularly (see above), however, even with the most experienced surgeons, operative complications such as hypoparathyroidism occur more commonly in the young than in adults ( 128 ). Patients who have been thyrotoxic in the months leading up to surgery may be at particular risk of hypocalcemia postoperatively and it is important to optimize vitamin D status prior to the surgery. Radioiodine (RAI) In this context, the objective of RAI administration is thyroid gland ablation. RAI is less likely to result in hypothyroidism in patients with very large goiter and is not recommended in the very young (under 10 years of age) because of the relatively high radiation exposure to tissues elsewhere in the body. As with adults, glucocorticoid cover should be considered if there is significant, active Graves’ orbitopathy. There may be particular logistical considerations when planning RAI therapy in young people, for example the presence of young siblings at home who will need to maintain a safe distance from the patient. Some centers administer a fixed activity of RAI although recent guidance has suggested that dosimetry with calculation of the administered RAI treatment is advantageous in young patients ( 2 ). A more refined approach to dose calculation has the potential to minimize the activity of RAI administered whilst maintaining efficacy in rendering the patient hypothyroid. Summary Managing Graves’ disease in the young person is more challenging than in adults in almost every respect. There is, therefore, a pressing need for more innovative treatment strategies
