Diagnosis and Treatment of Graves’ Disease
KEYWORDS: thyroid, graves, disease, patients, pubmed, graves disease, treatment, rai, hyperthyroidism, doi, crossref, pubmed crossref, therapy, free, atds


hypothyroid. Summary Managing Graves’ disease in the young person is more challenging than in adults in almost every respect. There is, therefore, a pressing need for more innovative treatment strategies that will reduce the proportion of patients ending up on thyroid hormone replacement following radioiodine or surgery. Preconception and Pregnancy Detailed information concerning management of Graves’ disease in pregnancy is discussed elsewhere (see chapter: Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient). ATDs may rarely cause birth anomalies ( 129 ) and so the principles of care during pre-conception and pregnancy are to minimize fetal exposure to ATDs where possible, and to keep the patient euthyroid. Ideally, a patient with Graves’ hyperthyroidism seeking future pregnancy should have definitive treatment with either RAI or thyroidectomy before the pregnancy, as the risks of ATD are eliminated and the pregnancy is carried with levothyroxine therapy only ( 130 ). If RAI is selected as the definitive treatment, a minimum interval of six months should elapse between its administration and the onset of pregnancy. In addition, with either definitive treatment, serum TSH should be optimized by adjustment of levothyroxine dose in the preconception period to achieve a TSH between 0.4–2.5 mU/L ( 131 , 132 ). Not all patients will have anticipated pregnancy or will want definitive management. However, if pregnancy is anticipated in the near future, a patient stable on ATDs should be controlled with the lowest effective dose of ATD and changed from methimazole or carbimazole to an equivalent dose of propylthiouracil (PTU) ( 131 , 132 ). This is because, although the prevalence of birth defects is similar, the spectrum of congenital anomalies in fetuses exposed to methimazole or carbimazole tends to be more severe than in those exposed to PTU ( 129 , 130 ). Thus, if a patient has low or undetectable TRAb and stable detectable serum TSH for 6 months before pregnancy, then ATDs can be stopped in early pregnancy with frequent monitoring ( 132 ). If ATDs are continued in the first trimester, the dose may often be reduced, leading to discontinuation in the second or third trimester, owing to the natural waning of autoimmunity during pregnancy ( 133 ). In any event, serum TSH and free T4 should be monitored every 2 to 4 weeks during the first trimester and then every 4 to 8 weeks during the remaining pregnancy. It is important to understand that
