International Medical Case Reports Journal Dovepress
KEYWORDS: infection, eating, patient, bartonella, infections, lyme, case, symptoms, pneumoniae, pans, described, igm, disorders, igg, disorder


open access to scientific and medical research Open Access Full Text Article CASE REPORT Anorexia Nervosa Caused by Polymicrobial Tick-Borne Infections: A Case Study Daniel A Kinderlehrer Abstract: The etiology of anorexia nervosa (AN) is multifactorial, and infections may play a contributory and possibly a prominent role. A case is presented which is indicative of Private Practice, Denver, CO, 80224, USA a causal association between tick-borne infections and AN. This adolescent female was diagnosed with AN at an eating disorder clinic after excessive food restriction and an irrational fear of weight gain necessitating nasogastric tube feeding. Her history was con- sistent with systemic infections and she tested serologically positive to Borrelia burgdorferi, consistent with a Bartonella infection. After treatment with oral and intravenous antimicro- bials, she stopped food restriction and no longer had body image concerns. Physicians should be aware of the possibility that tick-borne infections could underly a diagnosis of AN. The role of tick-borne infections in the etiology of AN warrants further study. Keywords: anorexia nervosa, infection, lyme borreliosis, babesia, mycoplasma, bartonella Introduction Anorexia nervosa (AN) is an eating disorder in which patients with an abnormally low body weight have a distorted body image accompanied by an intense fear of gaining weight. People with AN usually severely restrict the quantity of food they eat. They sometimes control calorie intake by vomiting, abusing laxatives, diet aids, diuretics, enemas, or excessive exercise. The fear of weight gain continues regard- less of how much weight is lost. Eating disorders are a major cause of morbidity and mortality. It is estimated that 9% of the world population suffers from an eating disorder1,2 and 9% of the US population or 28.8 million Americans will have an eating disorder in their lifetime.3 It is estimated that 26% of people with eating disorders attempt suicide and 10% of people with eating disorders lose their lives as a result of their condition;4,5 AN has the highest mortality rate of any mental disorder.4 Eating disorders in children are on the rise—between 1999 and 2006 there was a 119% increase in hospitalizations related to eating disorders in children less than twelve years of age.6–8 AN is considered to be a combination of genetic and environmental factors. Family and twin studies as well as molecular genetic analysis suggest an inheritable vulnerability.9–13 Environmental influences include dysfunctional home circum- stances and a history of trauma,14,15 as well as modern Western culture’s
