International Medical Case Reports Journal Dovepress
KEYWORDS: infection, eating, patient, bartonella, infections, lyme, case, symptoms, pneumoniae, pans, described, igm, disorders, igg, disorder


including vasculitis, arthritis, meningitis and Denmark between 1989 and 2006, and managed until encephalitis.54–59 Infection with M. pneumoniae can cause 2012. The study population included 930,977 individuals. neuropsychiatric symptoms including acute psychosis,60,61 They found a significantly higher risk of eating disorders OCD,62 and mania.63 In addition, M. pneumoniae has been in both children and adolescents with autoimmune illness identified as a PANS trigger.32,64,65 —36% higher risk for AN, 73% for bulimia nervosa, and Bartonella spp. are transmitted to humans via cat 72% for unspecified eating disorders.31 In children and scratches, animal bites, and sand fleas.66 In addition, adolescents with PANS, it appears that “an infection can Bartonella can be transmitted via tick vectors,66–68 and may cause a cascade of immunological, psychological, and be a common co-infection with Lyme borreliosis.69–71 280 I n t e r n a t i o n a l M e d i c a l C a s e R e p orts Journal 2021:14 DovePress Dovepress Kinderlehrer Bartonella spp. are responsible for a wide spectrum of clin- Case Presentation ical syndromes in humans, including both neurological and This female patient initially presented at seventeen years psychiatric illness.72–75 The latter category includes depres- of age having been diagnosed with anorexia nervosa. She sion, anxiety disorder, panic disorder, OCD, phobias, alcohol lived in upstate New York from two until sixteen years and drug abuse, psychosis, and personality disorders.75–77 In of age. As a young child in upstate New York, she had addition, Bartonella is associated with a wide spectrum of several tick attachments but no observed rash and no autoimmune conditions.77–92 Breitschwerdt et al have known infections. She had a healthy infancy and normal described a child with PANS that was triggered by developmental milestones but at two years of age began Bartonella henselae (B. henselae) infection.77 screaming and pulling out her hair for no accountable reason (trichotillomania). By four years of age, she experienced social anxiety and gradually developed gen- Methods eralized anxiety and irritability. At twelve years of age, A case is presented of an immunocompetent adolescent she began complaining of fatigue and frequent sore female diagnosed with AN who was serologically positive throats with anterior cervical adenopathy. At fourteen for Borrelia burgdorferi (B. burgdorferi), Babesia microti years of age, this patient had yet another tick attachment (B. microti), and M. pneumoniae, and clinically diagnosed which led to a two-centimeter erythematous tender rash with
