International Medical Case Reports Journal Dovepress
KEYWORDS: infection, eating, patient, bartonella, infections, lyme, case, symptoms, pneumoniae, pans, described, igm, disorders, igg, disorder


burgdorferi), Babesia microti years of age, this patient had yet another tick attachment (B. microti), and M. pneumoniae, and clinically diagnosed which led to a two-centimeter erythematous tender rash with Bartonella infection, who responded to antimicrobial but no other immediate sequelae, and she was not trea- treatment to these infections and has remained in sustained ted. However, over the next year her fatigue worsened, remission from her eating disorder. and she experienced impaired cognition, postural light- Informed consent was obtained from the parents of this headedness, sleep disturbances, and worsening anxiety patient to publish this history as well as the photograph in and irritability as well as depression. Figure 1. Institutional review was not required to publish At fifteen years of age, the patient began restricting her the case details. food intake and purging after meals with forced vomiting leading to an admission to an eating disorder unit at age sixteen; she was diagnosed with AN at that time. Separate trials on sertraline and fluoxetine led to suicidal ideation, but aripiprazole afforded some benefit. She was discharged after two weeks and entered an intensive outpatient program for two months, but was readmitted to an inpatient program due to refusal to eat and suicidal thought with intent. Nasogastric tube feeding was commenced at that time. She was again discharged but readmitted after two weeks because of suicidal thought with intent. She continued to receive tube feedings intermittently when she refused food intake, and was readmitted three months later with suicidal intent and was placed on desvenlafaxine. She was read- mitted after another month refusing to eat. She was fed through a dobhoff tube and discharged but after another month needed to be readmitted after pulling out her tube and refusing to eat. This cycle repeated itself one more time, and at the time I initially evaluated her, she was attending an outpatient eating disorder program. Despite intensive interventions with inpatient and outpatient psy- chotherapy, behavioral interventions, and psychotropic medication, she continued to refuse oral food intake. At the time of her initial visit the patient was taking desvenlafaxine and aripiprazole as well as lorazepam and Figure 1 Striae on medial aspect of left thigh. International Medical Case Reports Journal 2021:14 2 8 1 DovePress Kinderlehrer Dovepress melatonin at bedtime. She had the nasogastric tube in place and initially treated with oral azithromycin 250 mg twice and stated that she was otherwise
