International Medical Case Reports Journal Dovepress
KEYWORDS: infection, eating, patient, bartonella, infections, lyme, case, symptoms, pneumoniae, pans, described, igm, disorders, igg, disorder


8 1 DovePress Kinderlehrer Dovepress melatonin at bedtime. She had the nasogastric tube in place and initially treated with oral azithromycin 250 mg twice and stated that she was otherwise refusing to eat. She daily to treat infections with B. burgdorferi and maintained that she still had an overweight issue and had M. pneumoniae, and artemisinin 100mg every other day to stay on a restricted diet. She continued to describe to treat Babesia. In addition, the patient was clinically anxiety, depression, and irritability as well as fatigue, diagnosed with bartonellosis, and began sulfamethoxa- impaired cognition with poor concentration, errors in zole/trimethoprim (SXT) at 800 mg/160 mg twice daily. speech, non-restorative sleep with early morning awaken- The introduction of SXT triggered an increase in her hip ing, postural lightheadedness, and frequent sore throats with pain, and she was more adamant in her refusal to eat, enlarged cervical nodes. In addition, she complained of leading to discontinuation of the SXT. The patient was numbness and paresthesias in her hands and toes, neck then started on intravenous ceftriaxone 2 gm daily admi- and hip pain, and muscle twitching. Physical examination nistered through a peripherally inserted central catheter revealed she was 66 inches in height and weight was 58 kg; (PICC), after which she began improving. Artemisinin sitting blood pressure was 130/80 mmHg with a pulse of 80 dose was progressed to 200 mg twice daily four days out beats per minute (bpm) and blood pressure was 118/60 of seven, and SXT was restarted at 400 mg/80 mg, both of mmHg with a pulse of 100 bpm standing. The remainder which were well tolerated. Postural lightheadedness con- of the examination was unremarkable with the exception of tinued to be problematic and repeat vital signs revealed her skin. There were prominent erythematous striae on her BP=96/60 mmHg with pulse 80 bpm sitting and BP=86/66 breasts, hips, and thighs. The patient described these stria- mmHg with pulse 132 bpm standing accompanied by tions as stretch marks and indicative of her overweight symptoms of near-syncope. The patient was diagnosed issue. A picture of these striae on her left medial thigh is with postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome (POTS) in Figure 1. and started on midodrine 5 mg twice daily with resolution Laboratory evaluation revealed normal routine blood of her lightheaded symptoms. counts and chemistries as well as quantitative immunoglo- At this point, she was consuming a normal caloric
