International Medical Case Reports Journal Dovepress
KEYWORDS: infection, eating, patient, bartonella, infections, lyme, case, symptoms, pneumoniae, pans, described, igm, disorders, igg, disorder


years since discontinuing antibiotics, these symptoms with Lyme borreliosis, babesiosis, and mycoplasmosis, have remained in remission. 282 I n t e r n a t i o n a l M e d i c a l C a s e R e p orts Journal 2021:14 DovePress Dovepress Kinderlehrer Discussion nervosa. This patient’s JHR in response to SXT, which diagnosis of AN, and positive serologies to B. burgdorferi, gests the possible role of Bartonella infection in the patho- B. microti, and M. pneumoniae. (The patient’s Lyme IgM genesis of her eating disorder. Regarding Mycoplasma, Toufexis et al described four Western blot was CDC positive for Lyme disease; it is children with PANS and eating restrictions who had posi- noteworthy that persistent IgM positivity to B. burgdorferi is consistent with chronic infection.93,94) In addition, she tive IgG titers to M. pneumoniae, but only one of whom also had an elevation in her IgM antibodies.32 Their report was clinically diagnosed with bartonellosis. does not cite the actual titers of IgG and IgM antibodies. It The clinical evidence for the diagnosis of bartonellosis is not clear whether M. pneumoniae was playing a role in in this patient is supported by the presence of dermatolo- the subjects with PANS since there is a high background gical striae that were not in the normal skin plains seen of IgG prevalence in control populations,101,102 and IgM with striae distensae, ie, stretch marks. Nor did she ever false positivity occurs in the setting of other infections due experience abnormal weight gain, rapid or otherwise, that to cross-reactivity.103 Similarly, Piras et al described a case would account for striae distensae; nor was there evidence of PANS with “a positive test for Mycoplasma pneumo- of hypercortisolism. Rather, these striae have been niae”, in which the subject responded to clarithromycin; described in patients with Bartonella infections, and are neither the IgM nor the IgG titers were reported.64 On the a result of neovascularization that is stimulated by this other hand, Frankovich et al, in their series of five cases microbe.95 Breitschwerdt et al described 29 patients who with PANS, describe one subject who had significant ele- had serological and/or PCR evidence of Bartonella infec- vations in both IgM and IgG titers to M. pneumoniae.65 tion, 24 of whom described the onset of cutaneous lesions The patient in this current report had high levels of both since the onset of
