International Medical Case Reports Journal Dovepress
KEYWORDS: infection, eating, patient, bartonella, infections, lyme, case, symptoms, pneumoniae, pans, described, igm, disorders, igg, disorder


IgG titers to M. pneumoniae.65 tion, 24 of whom described the onset of cutaneous lesions The patient in this current report had high levels of both since the onset of neuropsychiatric symptoms.96 The IgM and IgG antibodies to M. pneumoniae, thus confirm- majority of those lesions were similar to the striae that ing active infection with this microbe. this patient manifested on presentation. Bartonella immu- Babesiosis can result in anorexia,104 but there are no noreactivity has been detected in skin-tissue biopsies in case reports in the medical literature connecting Babesia these lesions.97 Further evidence of Bartonella infection in infection with PANS, AN or other eating disorders. this patient is the provocation of Jarisch-Herxheimer reac- Babesia infection is a well-documented cause of autoim- tions when she was started on SXT, or the dose of SXT mune hemolytic anemia, particularly in its acute stage, but was increased; when SXT was introduced, she experienced it has not been linked to other autoimmune conditions.104 an increase in hip pain and was more adamant in her Neuroinflammation occurs in both acute and persistent refusal to eat, and SXT has anti-Bartonella activity.98 infection with Lyme borreliosis.105,106 Persistent infection Bartonella is a common co-infection of Lyme borrelio- with B. burgdorferi can induce chronic autoimmune sis. In a survey of Ixodes ticks in northern New Jersey, disease,107 and anti-neuronal antibodies are present in Adelson et al found that 35% harbored B. burgdorferi while many patients with persistent symptoms following treat- 34% were colonized with Bartonella spp.69 Additional stu- ment for Lyme borreliosis.108 As yet there are no reports dies of Ixodes ticks have also found a high incidence of of B. burgdorferi as a trigger for PANS. Neuropsychiatric Bartonella spp.,70,71 and case studies have documented symptoms associated with Lyme borreliosis are similar to Bartonella seropositivity and the presence of Bartonella those with PANS, including anxiety, depression, OCD and DNA in the serum of patients with B. burgdorferi infection tics.44–50,109 of the nervous system.72,73 This patient was seronegative Review articles cite the occurrence of eating disor- for B. henselae, but false negative serological results are ders and, specifically, AN in patients with Lyme frequent.99 Bartonella spp. other than B. henselae have borreliosis,44–47 but a review of the medical literature caused infection in humans,100 which may account for revealed only one case history of AN associated with false negative serologies when testing for only B. henselae. Lyme disease. Pachner et
