Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: barium, aspiration, barium aspiration, left, chest, findings, radiographic, figure, revealed, large, esophagus, patients, patient, pleural effusion, pata


Open Access Case Report DOI: Clinical and Radiological Dissociation in Massive Barium Aspiration Ramakanth Pata 1 , Tsering Dolkar 1 , Meet J. Patel 1 , Nway Nway 1 , Htun M. Aung 1 Corresponding author: Ramakanth Pata, Abstract Barium studies are commonly used to rule out gastrointestinal (GI) pathologies and sometimes they are associated with complications such as barium aspiration with heterogeneity in clinical features ranging from mild to severe symptoms. We present a case of large volume barium aspiration in a 73-year-old male with past medical history of dysphagia diagnosed with diffuse esophageal spasm. Barium is an inert material commonly used for GI tract study. Although complications associated with barium studies are rare, aspiration of barium can have dramatic findings resulting in mild to severe symptoms. Clinically patient had paradox must be kept in mind when evaluating patients and reviewing large volume barium aspiration imaging. Our case remained asymptomatic and had no respiratory complaints, nor did he develop any respiratory distress post barium aspiration. Categories: Radiology, Gastroenterology, Pulmonology Keywords: barium aspiration Introduction Barium is an inert material commonly used for gastrointestinal (GI) tract study. We present a case of large volume barium aspiration in a 73-year-old male with past medical history of dysphagia diagnosed with diffuse esophageal spasm. Although complications associated with barium studies are rare, aspiration of barium can have dramatic findings resulting in mild to severe symptoms. Clinically patient had very minimal symptoms but radiographic studies appeared dramatic. Case Presentation A 73-year-old male presented to emergency department due to presyncope with an episode of loss of consciousness for three minutes. He also complained of productive cough with whitish sputum. Vital signs were normal and physical examination was benign. Chest X-ray (CXR) showed evidence of consolidation, which was followed by a computed tomography (CT) chest that revealed a dilated esophagus (Figure 1). Barium swallow was done for optimal evaluation of dilated esophagus (Figure 2). Post-procedure CXR Review began [DATE] revealed interval development of complete opacification of left hemithorax and retained barium in the left Review ended [DATE] upper chest (Figure 3). CT chest was followed, which revealed retained barium within the upper to the mid- Published [DATE] thoracic esophagus. Complete left lung atelectasis was noted, likely related to the obstructing filling defect Pata et al. This is an open access article the esophagus and improved left lobar airspace disease with moderate to large pleural effusion (Figure 5).
