Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: barium, aspiration, barium aspiration, left, chest, findings, radiographic, figure, revealed, large, esophagus, patients, patient, pleural effusion, pata


aspiration. CT chest revealed complete left lung atelectasis, which subsequently improved within days, revealing moderate pleural effusion. Although there was a pleural effusion on the CXR, a bedside sonogram of the lung revealed a predominant consolidation pattern. The patient was kept under observation. A 6- minute walk test was carried out and no desaturation or symptoms were noted. Steroids or antibiotics were not used and bronchoscopy was not performed due to the risk of spreading the contrast to unaffected areas . The patient was asked to follow up in the pulmonary clinic six weeks post-discharge. radiographic findings and no change in physiological findings; positive radiographic findings and altered ventilation/perfusion (V/Q) ratio ; positive radiographic findings with shunt effect ; and positive radiographic findings with inflammatory response . Most patients are completely asymptomatic after aspiration and treatment remains observation . Aspiration pneumonia should be suspected whenever a patient complains of dysphagia and radiographic evidence of consolidation. Nevertheless, the risk of aspirations and complications remains high in patients with dysphagia or the elderly . Treatment strategies vary depending on the underlying baseline comorbidities in patients with severe respiratory complications, although bronchoscopy and suctioning have been tried . Furthermore, if gastric contents are aspirated along with barium, antibiotics have been used . 2021 Pata et al. Cureus 13(1): e12557. DOI 4 of 5 Most patients appear to recover completely one-year post aspiration. High-resolution CT has reported subtle evidence of early fibrosis even one-year post aspiration, although limited data is available on patient outcome years after aspiration . The clinical significance of such findings remains unknown. Conclusions Although barium aspiration has dramatic radiographic findings, most patients are asymptomatic. Therefore, a clinical and radiographic paradox must be kept in mind when evaluating the patients and reviewing large volume barium aspiration imaging. We recommend longer follow-ups to check for delayed developments post barium aspiration. Additional Information Disclosures Human subjects: Consent was obtained by all participants in this study. Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all authors declare the following: Payment/services info: All authors have declared that no financial support was received from any organization for the submitted work. Financial relationships: All authors have declared that they have no financial relationships at present or within the previous three years with any organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work. Other relationships: All authors have declared that there are no other
