Immunology
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, binding, host, response, epitopes, different, epitope, parasite, antigenic, variants, immune, antibodies, chapter, antigens


hard enough to keep up in one’s own field, and more difficult to follow the foreign concepts and language of other subjects. The typical approach tosyn- thesisusesanacademicdisciplinetofocusabiologicalsubject. Iusethe biological problem of parasite variation to tie together many different approachesandlevelsofanalysis. Why should parasite variation be the touchstone for the integration of disciplines in modernbiology? On the practical side, infectious dis- easeremainsa majorcause ofmorbidityandmortality. Consequently, greatresearchefforthasbeendevotedtoparasitesandtohostimmune responsesthatfightparasites. Thishasledtorapidprogressinunder- standingthebiologyofparasites,includingthemoleculardetailsabout howparasitesinvadehostsandescapehostimmunedefenses. Vaccines havefollowed,sometimeswithspectacularsuccess. But many parasites escape host defense by varying their antigenic molecules recognized by host immunity. Put another way, rapid evo- lution of antigenic molecules all too often prevents control of parasite 4 CHAPTER 1 populations. The challenge has been to link molecular understanding ofparasitemolecules totheir evolutionarychangeandtothe antigenic variationinpopulationsofparasites. Ontheacademicside,thegrowthofinformationaboutantigenicvari- ation provides a special opportunity. For example, one can find in the literaturedetailsabouthowsingleaminoacidchangesinparasitemol- ecules allow escape from antibody binding, and how that escape pro- motes the spread of variant parasites. Evolutionary studies no longer dependonabstractions—onecanpinpointthephysicalbasisforsuccess orfailureandtheconsequencesforchangeinpopulations. Molecularunderstandingofhost-parasiterecognitionleadstoacom- parativequestionabouttheforcesthatshapevariability. Whydosome viruses escape host immunity by varying so rapidly over a few years, whereas other viruses hardly change their antigens? The answer leads totheprocessesthatshapegeneticvariabilityandevolutionarychange. Thecausesofvariabilityandchangeprovidethebasisforunderstanding whysimple vaccines workwellagainstsome viruses,whereascomplex vaccinestrategiesachieveonlylimitedsuccessagainstotherviruses. Ididnotstartoutbyseekingatopicfor multidisciplinary synthesis. Rather, I have long been interested in how the molecular basis of rec- ognitionbetweenattackersanddefenderssetsthetemporalandspatial scale of the battle. Attack and defense occur between insects and the plantstheyeat,betweenfungiandthecropplantstheydestroy,between virusesandthebacteriatheykill,betweendifferentchromosomescom- petingfortransmissionthroughgametes,andbetweenvertebratehosts andtheir parasites. Thebattle oftencomesdowntothe ratesatwhich attacker and defender molecules bind or evade each other. The bio- chemicaldetailsofbindingandrecognitionsettherulesofengagement thatshapethe pacing, scale,andpatternofdiversityandthe nature of evolutionarychange. Of the many cases of attack and defense across all of biology, the majorparasitesofhumansandtheirdomesticanimalsprovidethemost information ranging from the molecular to the population levels. New advances in the conceptual understanding of attack and defense will likely rise from the facts and the puzzles of this subject. I begin by puttingthediverse,multidisciplinaryfactsintoacoherentwhole. From thatfoundation,Idescribenewpuzzlesanddefinethekeyproblemsfor thefuturestudyofparasitevariationandescapefromhostrecognition. INTRODUCTION 5 I startat the most basiclevel, the nature of binding andrecognition betweenhost and parasite molecules. I summarize the many different waysinwhichparasitesgeneratenewvariantsinordertoescapemolec- ularrecognition. Next,Ibuilduptheindividualmolecularinteractionsintothedynam- icsofasingleinfectionwithinahost. Theparasitesspreadinthehost, triggeringimmuneattackagainstdominantantigens. Thebattlewithin the host develops through changes in population numbers—the num- bers of parasiteswith particular antigens and the numbers of immune cellsthatspecificallybindtoparticularantigens. I then discuss how the successes and failures of different parasite antigens within each host determine the rise and fall of parasite vari- antsoverspaceandtime. Thedistributionofparasitevariantssetsthe immune memory profiles of different hosts, which in turn shape the landscapeinwhichparasitevariantssucceedorfail. Thesecoevolution- aryprocessesdeterminethenaturalselectionofantigenicvariantsand thecourseofevolutionintheparasitepopulation. Finally, I consider different ways to study the evolution of antigenic variation. Experimental evolution of parasites under controlled
