Immunology
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, binding, host, response, epitopes, different, epitope, parasite, antigenic, variants, immune, antibodies, chapter, antigens


of different hosts, which in turn shape the landscapeinwhichparasitevariantssucceedorfail. Thesecoevolution- aryprocessesdeterminethenaturalselectionofantigenicvariantsand thecourseofevolutionintheparasitepopulation. Finally, I consider different ways to study the evolution of antigenic variation. Experimental evolution of parasites under controlled condi- tions provides one way to study the relations between molecular rec- ognition, the dynamics of infections within hosts, and the evolution- ary changes in parasite antigens. Sampling of parasites from evolving populations provides another way to test ideas about what shapes the distributionofparasitevariants. My primary goal is to synthesize across different levels of analysis. How do the molecular details of recognition and specificity shape the changing patterns ofvariants inpopulations? Howdoesthe epidemio- logicalspreadofparasitesbetweenhostsshapethekindsandamounts ofmolecularvariationinparasiteantigens? I compare different types of parasites because comparative biology providesinsightintoevolutionary process. Forexample,parasitesthat spreadrapidlyandwidelyinhostpopulationscreateahigherdensityof immunememoryintheirhoststhandoparasitesthatspreadslowlyand sporadically. Host species that quickly replace their populations with offspringdecaytheirpopulation-widememoryofantigensfasterthando hostspeciesthatreproducemoreslowly. Howdotheseepidemiological and demographic processes influence molecular variation of parasite antigens? 6 CHAPTER 1 Iendeachchapterwithasetofproblemsforfuture research. These problemsemphasizethegreatopportunitiesofmodernbiology. Atthe molecular level,newtechnologies providestructural dataonthe three- dimensional shape of host antibody molecules bound to parasite anti- gens. At the population level, genomic sequencing methods provide detailed data on the variations in parasite antigens. One can now map the nucleotide variations of antigens and their associated amino acid substitutionswithregardtothethree-dimensionallocationofantibody binding. Thus, the spread of nucleotide variations in populations can bedirectlyassociatedwiththechangesinmolecularbindingthatallow escapefromantibodyrecognition. No other subject provides such opportunity for integrating the re- cent progressinstructural andmolecular analysis withthe conceptual andmethodologicaladvancesinpopulationdynamicsandevolutionary biology. My problems for future research at the end of each chapter emphasize the new kinds of questions that one can ask by integrating differentlevelsofbiologicalanalysis. Part I of the book gives generalbackground. Chapter 2 summarizes the main features of vertebrate immunity. I present enough about the keycellsandmoleculessothatonecanunderstandhowimmunerecog- nitionshapesthediversityofparasites. Chapter3describesvariousbenefitsthatantigenicvariationprovides toparasites. Thesebenefitsexplainwhyparasitesvaryincertainways. Forexample,antigenicvariationcanhelptoescapehostimmunitydur- ing a single infection, extending the time a parasite can live within a particular host. Or antigenic variation may avoid the immunological memory of hosts, allowing the variant to spread in a population that previously encountered a different variant of that parasite. Different benefitsfavordifferentpatternsofantigenicvariation. Part II introduces molecular processes. Chapter 4 describes the at- tributes ofhostandparasitemolecules thatcontribute toimmunerec- ognition. The nature of recognition depends on specificity, the degree towhich the immune systemdistinguishes betweendifferentantigens. Sometimestwo differentantigensbind to the sameimmune receptors, perhaps with different binding strength. This cross-reactivity protects INTRODUCTION 7 hosts against certain antigenic variants, and sets the molecular dis- tancebywhichantigenictypesmustvarytoescaperecognition. Cross- reactivity may also interfere with immune recognition when immune receptors binda variantsufficiently topreventa newresponsebutnot stronglyenoughtoclearthevariant. Chapter 5 summarizes the different ways in which parasites
