Immunology
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, binding, host, response, epitopes, different, epitope, parasite, antigenic, variants, immune, antibodies, chapter, antigens


rapidly and outcompete weaker-bindinglineages. Thismutation andselectionpro- duceshigh-affinityantibodies,typicallyoftypeIgAorIgG. 34 CHAPTER 4 Thefourthsectiondescribes“natural”antibodies,aclassofnaiveIgM antibodies. Eachnaturalantibodycanbindwithlowaffinitytomanydif- ferent epitopes. Natural antibodies from different B cell lineages form a diverse set that binds with low affinity to almost any antigen. One in vitrostudy ofHIV suggestedthatthese backgroundantibodies bind to the viruses with such low affinity that they do not interfere with in- fection. By contrast, in vivo inoculations with several different patho- gens showedthat the initial binding by natural antibodies lowered the concentrations of pathogens earlyin infection byone or two orders of magnitude. Thefifthsectioncontrastsaffinityandspecificity. Poorbindingcondi- tionscauselow-affinitybindingtobehighlyspecificbecausedetectable bonds form only between the strongest complementary partners. By contrast, favorablebinding conditions causelow-affinitybinding tode- velop a relatively broad set of complementary partners, causing rela- tively low specificity. The appropriate measure of affinity varies with the particular immune process. Early stimulation of B cells appears to depend on the equilibrium binding affinity for antigens. By contrast, competition betweenB cell clones for producing affinity-matured anti- bodiesappearstodependonthedynamicratesofassociationbetween Bcellreceptorsandantigens. The sixth section compares the cross-reactivity of an in vivo, poly- clonal immune response with the cross-reactivity of a purified, mono- clonalantibody. Polyclonal immuneresponsesraiseantibodiesagainst manyepitopesonthesurfaceofanantigen. Cross-reactivitydeclineslin- earlywiththenumberofaminoacidsubstitutionsbetweenvariantanti- gensbecauseeachexposedaminoacidcontributesonlyasmallamount tothetotalbindingbetweenallantibodiesandallepitopes. Bycontrast, amonoclonalantibodyusuallybindstoasingleepitopeontheantigen surface. Cross-reactivitydeclinesrapidlyandnonlinearlywiththenum- ber of amino acid substitutions in the target epitope because a small numberofaminoacidscontrolmostofthebindingenergy. The seventh section discusses the specificity and cross-reactivity of T cell responses. Four steps determine the interaction between para- siteproteinsandTcells: thecellulardigestionofparasiteproteins,the transport of the resulting peptides to the endoplasmic reticulum, the bindingofpeptidestoMHCmolecules,andthebindingofpeptide-MHC complexestotheTcellreceptor(TCR).Mason(1999)estimatesthateach SPECIFICITY AND CROSS-REACTIVITY 35 TCR cross-reacts with ∼105 different peptides. If a TCR reacts with a specific peptide, then the probability that it will react with a second, randomlychosenpeptideisonly∼10−4. Thus,theTCRcanbethought ofashighly cross-reactiveor highly specificdepending onthe point of view. The eighth section lists the ways in which hosts vary genetically in their responses to antigens. MHC alleles are highly polymorphic. The germline genes that contribute to the T cell receptor have some poly- morphisms that influence recognition, butthe germline B cell receptor genesdonotcarryanyknownpolymorphisms. Thefinalsectiontakesuppromisinglinesofstudyforfutureresearch. 4.1 Antigensand AntibodyEpitopes Anantigenicmoleculestimulatesanimmuneresponse. Eachspecific subset of an antigenic molecule recognized by an antibody or a T cell receptor defines anepitope. Each antigentypically hasmany epitopes. For example, insulin, adimericprotein with51amino acids, has onits surface atleast115antibody epitopes(Schroer etal.1983). Nearlythe entire surface of an antigen presents many overlapping domains that antibodiescandiscriminateasdistinctepitopes(Benjaminetal.1984). Epitopeshaveapproximately15aminoacidswhendefinedbyspatial contact of antibody and epitope during binding (Benjamin and Perdue 1996). Almost all naturally occurring antibody epitopes studied sofar arecomposedofaminoacidsthatarediscontinuous intheprimaryse- quencebutbroughttogetherinspacebythefoldingoftheprotein. The relative binding of a native and a mutant antigen to
