Immunology
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, binding, host, response, epitopes, different, epitope, parasite, antigenic, variants, immune, antibodies, chapter, antigens


to a set of variable epitopes. The potential distribution of paratopes may change as a B cell clone matures in re- sponse to challenge by a matching antigen—I take this up in the next section(4.3),onAntibodyAffinityMaturation. Third,asingleparatopecanbindtwounrelatedepitopes(mimotopes, Pinillaetal.1999;Gras-Masseetal.1999). Krameretal.(1997)scanneda libraryofsyntheticallygeneratedpeptidesforcompetitioninbindingto a monoclonal (purified) antibody. X-ray diffraction of three competing peptides showed that they all bound to the same site on the antibody (Keiteletal.1997). Fourth, a particular epitope can be recognized by two different par- atopes with no sequence similarity. For example, Lescar et al. (1995) usedx-raydiffractiontostudythephysicalcontactbetweenguineafowl lysozymeandtwodifferentantibodies. Thetwoantibodiescontactthe same 12 amino acids of the antigen. However, the antibodies have 38 CHAPTER 4 differentparatopeswithnoidenticalaminoacidsintheregionthatbinds the antigen. The two antibodies also have different patterns of cross- reactivitywithotherantigens. Experimentalstudiesofspecificityfrequentlycomparepairwiseaffini- ties between an epitope and various paratopes or between a paratope andvariousepitopes. In thesepairwisemeasures,one firstraisesanti- body to a monomorphic (nonvarying) antigenic molecule and then iso- lates a single epitope-paratope binding—in other words, one raises a monoclonalantibodythatbindstoasingleantigenicsite. Variationsin affinity are then measured for different epitopes holding the paratope constantorfordifferentparatopesholdingtheepitopeconstant. Alternatively, one can challenge a host with a polymorphic popula- tion of antigens. One controlled approach varies the antigens only in a small region that defines a few epitopes . If exact replicas of each epitope occur rarely, then antibodies will be se- lectedaccordingtotheirbindingaffinityfortheaggregatesetofvarying epitopes(mixotopes)towhichtheymatch. Thismethodmaybeagood approach for finding antibodies with high cross-reactivity to antigenic variantsofaparticularepitope. 4.3 AntibodyAffinityMaturation The host’s naive B cells make antibodies of the immunoglobulin M class (IgM). An antibody is a secreted form of a receptor that occurs on the surfaces of B cells. Each B cell clone makes IgM with different bindingcharacteristics—thatis,thevariablebindingregionsoftheIgMs differ. The host has a large repertoire of naive B cells that produce a diversearrayofIgMspecificities. Anantigenonfirstexposuretoahostwilloftenbindratherweaklyto severalofthenaiveIgM.ThoseBcellcloneswithrelativelyhigh-affinity IgM for the antigen divide rapidly and come to dominate the antibody responsetotheantigen. The dividing B cell clones undergo affinity maturation for particular epitopes. Duringthisprocess,elevatedmutationratesoccurintheDNA thatencodestheantibodybindingregion. Thishypermutationindivid- ingBcelllineagescreatesadiversityofbindingaffinities. ThoseBcells with relatively higher binding affinities are stimulated to divide more SPECIFICITY AND CROSS-REACTIVITY 39 rapidlythan Bcells withloweraffinities. Thisprocessofmutation and selectioncreateshigh-affinityantibodiesfortheantigen. The B cells that win the competition and produce affinity matured antibodiesswitchfromproducing IgMtoimmunoglobulinG(IgG).This classswitchoccursbyachangeinthenonvariableregionoftheantibody thatisdistinctfromthevariablebindingregion. Wedemayeretal.(1997)studiedthechangesinthevariableantibody binding region during affinity maturation to a particular epitope. The matured antibody had an affinity for the epitope 30,000 times higher than the original, naive antibody. This increasedaffinity resulted from nine amino acid substitutions during affinity maturation. Wedemayer etal.(1997)foundthatthenaiveantibodysignificantlychangeditsshape during binding withthe epitope. Bycontrast, the mature antibodyhad awell-definedbindingregionthatprovidedalock-and-keyfittotheepi- tope. Wedemayeretal.(1997)speculatedthatnaiveantibodiesmayhave more flexible binding regions in order to recognize
