Immunology
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, binding, host, response, epitopes, different, epitope, parasite, antigenic, variants, immune, antibodies, chapter, antigens


and amino (N-terminal) ends. Many processes cut proteins into shorter peptides, but the proteasomes seem to be particularly important for generating peptides of the right length for MHC presentation (Rock and Goldberg 1999;Yorketal.1999). Proteasomedigestioncreatesanonrandompop- ulationofpeptidesrelativetothepotentialsetdefinedbytheaminoacid sequence of whole proteins. Digestion appears to be particularly spe- cific for the C-terminal cut, less sofor the N-terminal cut (Niedermann etal.1999). TheMHCclassImoleculeshavebiasesforcertainaminoacidsatthe C-terminalsiteofpeptides(Rammenseeetal.1995). Niedermannetal. (1999)haveshownacorrelationbetweenthe preferredC-terminalcuts ofproteasomedigestionandthefavoredC-terminalaminoacidsbound by MHC class I molecules. Thus, the proteasomes appear to be prefer- entiallygeneratingpeptidesthatcanbepresentedbyMHC. A peptide that binds MHC with relatively high affinity may not be generated in sufficient quantity to be a dominant epitope for immune recognition. Invitrostudiesofproteasomedigestionprovidetheeasiest waytoquantifypeptidegeneration. Althoughinvivoresultsmaydiffer, thepreliminarydatafrominvitrostudiesprovideinterestinghints. For example, mice were immunized with chicken ovalbumin, and the CTL response was studied by in vitro reactions with peptides presented by theclassIMHCmoleculeKb. ThepeptideOva SIINFEKL dominated 257 264 46 CHAPTER 4 theCTLresponse(Chenetal.1994;Niedermannetal.1995),wherethe capital letters define the peptide sequence based on the single-letter amino acid code and the subscripts give the location of the peptide within the primary sequence of the protein. A secondary, weaker re- sponsetoOva KVVRFDKL canbegeneratedundersomeconditions. 55 62 Dicketal.(1994)foundthatproteasomedigestionoffull-lengthoval- bumin proteins yielded Ova SIINFEKL but not Ova KVVRFDKL . 257 264 55 62 Niedermannetal. (1995,1996)studiedindetail the proteasome diges- tion patterns of synthetic peptides with 22 or 44 amino acids contain- ing the two potential epitopes. Theyfound major cleavage sites at the twoends ofthe dominant Ova SIINFEKL epitope and relativelylit- 257 264 tle cleavage within the epitope. By contrast, a dominant cleavage site occurred between amino acids 58 and 59 of Ova KVVRFDKL , yield- 55 62 ing only tracesofthe intactepitope. Severalother studies reviewedby Niedermann et al. (1999) support the hypothesis that proteasomal di- gestion frequently reduces the number of copies of potential epitopes sufficientlytopreventastrongCTLresponse. It may eventually be possible to predict the probabilities of protea- somal cleavage sites . However, many factors influencetheconcentrationofdifferentpeptidesavailableforMHCbind- ing. Forexample,sequencesflankingantigenicpeptidesinfluencecleav- age. Interferon-γ changes the distribution ofproteasesaffectingantigenicpeptideproduction,perhapsenhancing peptides with MHC binding motifs . TAP transports different peptides at different rates from the cytosol to the endoplas- mic reticulum, where MHC class I binding of peptides occurs (Yewdell andBennink1999). I have focused on the MHC class I molecules, which are present in many cell types. By contrast, MHC class II molecules operate in spe- cialized antigen-presenting cells. Those cells take in antigen from the outsideenvironment,processtheproteinsintopeptides,bindpeptides toMHC classII molecules, andpresentthe peptide-MHCcomplexes on the cell surface. These peptide–class II complexes bind to a subset of CD4+ T cells with specific, matching T cell
