Immunology
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, binding, host, response, epitopes, different, epitope, parasite, antigenic, variants, immune, antibodies, chapter, antigens


for individual components of each molecule. The highly polymorphic components tend to be in the β chains that contact bound peptides (Marshetal.2000). Theβ chainsfortheDR,DQ,andDPclassIImole- culescurrentlyhave246,44,and86allelesdescribed,respectively. The IMGT/HLA on-line database lists recent allelic counts, as described in Robinsonetal.(2000). The MHC molecules shape the TCR repertoire. As T cells mature in thethymus,theybindtoMHCmoleculespresentingself-antigens. Those TCRs that bind too strongly cause the associated T cells to die. Those TCRsthatbindtooweaklyfailtoprovidesufficientlystrongreinforcing signals, againcausing the associatedT cells todie. Fewerthan 1% ofT cells pass these checks to survive . Thus, the naive SPECIFICITY AND CROSS-REACTIVITY 53 TCR repertoire is strongly influenced by the particular MHC alleles of each individual. The individual naive repertoires lead to different TCR clonesbeingstimulatedindifferentindividualswhenchallengedbythe same epitope (Maryanski et al. 1996, 1999). Because helper T cells in- fluenceantibodyresponseandotheraspectsofimmuneregulation,the variableTCRrepertoiremayhaveadditionalconsequencesbeyondCTL variability. Proteolysisofantigensandtransportofpeptidesdeterminethepep- tides available for MHC binding. Strong challenge by a particular par- asite could lead to selection favoring or disfavoring specific patterns of proteolysis. However, I am not aware of any evidence for protea- some polymorphism. The peptide transporter, TAP, is polymorphic: the two subunits TAP1 and TAP2 have six and four sequences listed inthe IMGT/HLAdatabase(Robinsonetal.2000). Sofar,nofunctional differencesamongalleleshavebeenfound(Marshetal.2000). Somatic mutation and recombination between various germline loci generate the DNA that encodes the TCR . These generativemechanismsalloweachindividualtoproduceahugevariety ofTCRbindingspecificities. Theintensityofdirectselectionongermline polymorphismsmayberatherweakbecausethesomaticmechanismsof variationandselectionshieldthegermlinefromtheselectiveprocesses initial conditions on which somatic processes build, so it is certainly possible that germline polymorphisms influence individual tendencies toreacttoparticularantigens. The limited data available show some germline polymorphisms for the TCR (e.g., Reyburn et al. 1993; Hauser 1995; Moffatt et al. 1997; Moody et al. 1998; Sim et al. 1998; see also One interestingstudyfoundaninteractionbetweenahumangermlinepoly- morphism in a subunit of the TCR (VA8.1) and an MHC class II poly- morphism (HLA-DRB1)(Moffattet al. 1997). The authors analyzedtwo variants of the VA8.1 allele and the six most common HLA-DRB1 alle- les. Individuals withenhancedallergicresponsetoadustmiteantigen tended to have one of the two VA8.1 variants combined with the HLA- DRB1*1501allele. Moffattetal.(1997)measuredallergicresponsebythetiterofIgEan- tibodies,whichareknowntobedirectlyinvolvedinstimulatingallergic symptoms (Janewayetal.1999). Most likely, the TCR andMHCclass II 54 CHAPTER 4 polymorphismsinfluenceIgEviahelperTcells,becauseTCRbindingto antigenspresentedbyMHCclassIIstimulatehelperTcells,andsuchT cell responseis typically requiredfor antibodystimulation. Thus, spe- cificrecognitionbytheTCRandMHCcanaffectspecificrecognitionby antibodies. The B cell receptor (BCR) is generated by a process of somatic re- combination and mutation similar to the process that generates TCRs. AntibodiesaresecretedformsoftheBCR.Ididnotfindanycomparable reportsofgermlinevariationintheallelesthatmakeupthecomponents oftheBCR.Hauser(1995)suggestedthatsomatichypermutation(affin- ity maturation) of the BCR protects the germline from direct selection. The TCR has limited somatic mutation after the initial genetic recom- binations, perhaps exposing germline TCRs to more intense selective pressures than BCRs. However, the difference may simply reflect less studyoftheBCRgermlinegenes.
