Immunology
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, binding, host, response, epitopes, different, epitope, parasite, antigenic, variants, immune, antibodies, chapter, antigens


TIME OF CTL RECRUITMENT Three factors influence the relative abundance of expanded T cell clones: frequencyinthenaiverepertoire,rateofcelldivision,andtime IMMUNODOMINANCE WITHIN HOSTS 81 ofinitialexpansion. Boussoetal.(1999)studiedexpansionofCTLclone abundances in mice against the human MHC allele HLA-Cw3. The re- sponsewasdominatedbyafewclones. Thosedominantcloneswerenot particularly frequent in the naive repertoire. The relative abundances didnotchangebetweendominantandsubdominantCTLclonesthatin- creasedinabundancefromtheearlytolatestagesoftheTcellresponse, suggesting that expanding clones did not vary in their rate of cellular division. The dominant CTL clones began their numerical expansion earlier than subordinate clones. CTL clones double every six to eight hours; thus aone-day advanceinclonal activationcauses an8-to16-fold dif- ferenceincellularabundance. Thetimingofinitialclonalexpansionap- pearstocontrolimmunodominanceinthiscase. Boussoetal.(1999)did not determine whether the earlier proliferation of certain clones arose from binding properties to epitopes that triggered faster activation or fromothercauses. INITIAL STIMULATION BY ENDOGENOUS VERSUS EXOGENOUS ANTIGEN Naive CD8+ T cells must be activated to proliferate and to become armedwithkiller function asCTLs. NaiveCD8+ cells arealsoconfined to the blood and lymph systems and generally do not pass outside to mosttissues,whereasthearmedCTLscanexittoinfectedtissues. Theconfinement ofnaiveCD8+ cells raisesa paradox(Reimannand Schirmbeck 1999). To be activated, the CD8+ cells must bind peptide- MHCclassIcomplexesonthesurfaceofcellswithforeignantigen. But if the infection is not in the blood or lymph compartments, the naive T cells cannot reach the site of infection. Somehow, the naive CD8+ cellsmustencounterpeptide-MHCclassIcomplexeswithinthebloodor lymph compartments eventhough the site ofinfection maybeoutside thosecompartments. One possible solution depends on the distinction between endoge- nous andexogenous antigen(Schumacher 1999;Sigaletal. 1999). The CD8+ Tcellistraditionallythought tobindprimarilytopathogenanti- gens created endogenously within infected host cells. Those antigens are digested within the cell and transported to the endoplasmic retic- ulum, where they bind MHC class I molecules. The peptide-MHC com- plex isthen transportedtothe cellsurface, whereitbecomesavailable 82 CHAPTER 6 to roving T cells. Endogenously generated antigen is confined to the surface of the cell in which it was produced; thus endogenous antigen cannot be transported from infected tissues that exclude naive CD8+ cellsintothelymphnodes,whereCD8+ cellsarecommon. When aninfected cell dies, pathogen antigens become liberatedand exist exogenously. Sigal et al. (1999) showed that naive CD8+ stimu- lation against a viral infection of peripheral tissue required transport ofexogenousantigenbymacrophagesordendriticcellsintothelymph nodes. Dendriticcellsareknowntotakeupexogenousantigeninperiph- eraltissues and then to move to lymph nodes (Banchereauet al. 2000; WattsandAmigorena2000). Inaddition,dendriticcellscanprocessex- ogenous antigen and present it bound to MHC class I alleles (Reimann and Schirmbeck 1999). Thus, dendritic cells may serve as scouts in theperipheraltissue,bringingexogenousantigentolymphnodeswhen stimulatedbysignsofinfectionortissuedamage. How does this scouting network influence antigenic variation? For pathogens that infect peripheral tissue, CTL stimulation may focus on those antigens likely to be released exogenously and taken up by den- driticcells(orperhapsmacrophages). Thus,abundantandstablepatho- gen proteins may be
