Immunology
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, binding, host, response, epitopes, different, epitope, parasite, antigenic, variants, immune, antibodies, chapter, antigens


with higher specificity for A(cid:1) and weakerspecificityforA(reversedorder). Thisformofcross-reactivein- terferenceoccursinCTLs(Goodetal.1993;KlenermanandZinkernagel 1998) and antibodies (Fazekas de St. Groth and Webster 1966a; Barry etal.1999). Figure6.1bshowsasecondpatternofcross-reactiveeffectsbetween variantsatthesameepitope. Thiscaseissimilartothefirst,inwhichse- quentialstimulationbyAandthenA(cid:1) causesacross-reactiveresponse aagainstsecondarychallengebyA(cid:1) (originalorder). However,primary stimulationbyA(cid:1) doesnotelicitaresponse(reversedorder). Thus,ini- tialprimingofcross-reactivememorycellsbyfirstexposuretoAisre- quired togenerate aresponse tosecondary challenge by A(cid:1). Fishetal. (1989)havedemonstratedthispatternforantibodyresponse. Thethirdpatternofsequentialeffectsoccurswhenparasitechallenge raisesaspecificimmuneresponseagainstseveralepitopes(fig.6.1c). In this example, the first challenge with a pair of different epitopes, AB, raises a specific response ab against both epitopes. Secondary chal- lenge by A(cid:1)B, in which epitope A is altered, yields a robust immune IMMUNODOMINANCE WITHIN HOSTS 89 response b againstthe original variantB but only a weakor absentre- sponseagainstthemodifiedepitopeA(cid:1) (originalorder). Thus,astrong responseagainstaconstantepitoperepressestheresponseagainstthe changedepitope. Thispatternhasbeenobservedinsequentialinfluenza infections(Janewayetal.1999,p.411). ItisnotknownhowmemoryBorTcellsreducestimulationofnaive clonesduringasecondarychallenge. Therapidresponsefrommemory cells may keep parasite density below the threshold required to stim- ulate naive B or T cells. This would be a form of indirect repression mediated by the population dynamics of the parasite and the specific immunecells. Alternatively, the memory cells may exert a more direct form of re- pression (Janeway et al. 1999, p. 410). For example, antigen bound to BCRs on naive B cells stimulates the B cells. But if the bound antigen also has a free antibody attached to it, the antibody interacts with the surfacereceptorFcγRIIB-1onthenaiveBcelltorepressactivityofthat naiveBcell. Bycontrast,antibodyboundtoantigen-BCRcomplexesdoes notrepressmemoryBcells. 6.4 ProblemsforFuture Research 1. Molecular structure, binding kinetics, and competition between cellularlineages. Bindingkineticsdeterminewinnersandlosersinthe competition between B cell lineages with different antibody specifici- ties(Rao1999). Equilibriumaffinitydominatesearlyinthecompetition, whereason-ratesdominatelaterduringaffinitymaturation. Howcanonestudythebiochemicalandstructuralattributesthatde- termine the binding kinetics of antibodies and epitopes? With regard toequilibrium affinity, onecancomparestructurally the differentanti- bodies from the naive repertoire inrelation to their success in binding a particular epitope and stimulating its B cell lineage. With regard to the shaping of on-rates, the hypermutation and selection during affin- itymaturationproducealinealsequenceofsubstitutionsthatenhances on-ratesandperhapsalsoincreasesoff-rates. Thecontrastbetweentheearlyselectionofequilibriumaffinity(on:off ratio) and the later selection of on-rate may provide insight into the structural features of binding that separately control on-rates and off- 90 CHAPTER 6 rates. This is a superb opportunity to relate structure to function via thekineticprocessesthatregulatetheimmuneresponse. 2. Mathematical models and experimental perturbations. Immuno- dominance results from the kinetics of cellular lineages. Quantitative models helptodevelophypotheses that canbetestedbyexperimental perturbation. For example, Rao (1999) suggested that competition for helperTcellsdeterminestheexpansionofBcelllineages. Hetestedthis ideabymanipulatingthepoolofhelperTcells,andfoundthatreducing thehelperTcellpooldidlowerstimulationtoBcelllineages. Rao’squantitativemodelcouldbeexpandedintoamathematicalanal- ysis,withinteractions betweenbinding rates,poolsizesfor differentB and T cell lineages, andthe rules of competition that determine which lineages succeed. Such a model presents clear hypotheses about the quantitativeinteractionsthatregulateimmunity. Thosehypothesescall attention to the sorts of experimental perturbations that should be in- formative. 3. Nowak’s predator-prey model of competition. Nowak et al. (1995) developed a mathematical model of immunodominance.
