Immunology
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, binding, host, response, epitopes, different, epitope, parasite, antigenic, variants, immune, antibodies, chapter, antigens


quantitativeinteractionsthatregulateimmunity. Thosehypothesescall attention to the sorts of experimental perturbations that should be in- formative. 3. Nowak’s predator-prey model of competition. Nowak et al. (1995) developed a mathematical model of immunodominance. Their model focused on competition between immune cell lineages for stimulation by epitopes. Immune cells receive relatively stronger stimulation as their matching epitopes increase in numbers. The strongest immune- epitopematchleadstothelargest,immunodominantpopulationofim- mune cells. Thatimmunodominant lineage expandsuntil its killing ef- fectreducestheparasitepopulationwithinthehostdowntoapointof balance. At that balance point, the parasite population stimulates division of theimmunodominantpopulationofimmunecellsjustenoughtomatch thetendencyoftheimmunecellpopulationtodieoff. Inturn,theimmu- nodominant immune cells reduce the parasites just enough to balance their births and deaths and hold the parasite population at a constant level. Otherimmunecelllineagesreceiveweakerstimulationbythepar- asitesbecauseoftheirweakerbindingcharacteristicstoepitopes. Those subdominantlineagesdeclinebecausethedominantlineagepushespar- asite abundance down to the point where the weaker stimulation re- ceivedbythesubdominantlineagescannotovercometheirtendencyto decline. IMMUNODOMINANCE WITHIN HOSTS 91 The bottom line from this mathematical analysis matches the sim- plest,standardtheoryofpredator-preypopulationdynamics: themost efficient predator reduces the prey down to a level where less efficient predatorscannotsurvive. Cansuchidealizedmathematicalmodelscapturethecomplexmolec- ular andkineticdetails of the immune response? The answerdepends onone’spointofview. Ontheonehand,immunodominance isshaped inpartbycompetition betweenlineagesof immune cells, andthus the populationdynamicsofcompetitioncontributeinsomewaytothepat- terns of immunodominance. On the other hand, the model abstracts away many aspects of regulatory control, such as the role of helper T cells, the distinction between equilibrium binding affinity and kinetic on-rates of binding in different phases of the immune response, and structuralpropertiesthatgovernaffinityandcross-reactivity. The mathematical abstraction pays off as long as one understands the goal: to bring into sharp focus a hypothesis about how essential processesshapeimmunodominance. Forexample,Nowaketal.’s(1995) model predicts that essential properties of population dynamics and stimulatory thresholds matter. Some of the studies described in the textsupportthisprediction. Ifonesuspectsthatthedistinctionbetween equilibriumaffinityandkineticon-ratesmattersinanessentialwayfor immunodominance, then an extended mathematical model would pro- videtestablepredictionsaboutthataspectofthesystem. Iemphasizetheseissuesherebecausethedynamicsofimmunecells and parasite populations within each infected host provide one of the few subjects that has beendevelopedmathematically (Nowakand May 2000). The simple principles from those models doseem to be impor- tant, ifonly becausethe rules ofpopulation dynamics mustplay akey roleinshapinghowpopulationsofimmunecellsandparasitesinteract. Onecan,ofcourse,makemorespecificmathematicalmodelstopre- dict the dynamics of particular parasites or the role of particular mo- lecular mechanisms. Those specific models require empirical study of theirspecializedpredictions. Andthatisexactlywhatwewant: testsof clearlyandlogicallyformulatedquantitativepredictions. 4. HelperTcellepitopesinanantibodyresponse. HelperTcellspro- videanimportantstimulusinthedevelopmentofanantibodyresponse. AsBcellsbindantigentotheirBCR,theyoftenpulltheantigenintothe 92 CHAPTER 6 cell. TheBcellsprocessproteinantigensintosmallpeptides,bindthose peptidestoMHCclassIImolecules,andpresentthepeptide-MHCcom- plexesontheircellsurfaces. HelperTcellswithmatchingspecificityin their TCRs bind the peptide-MHC complexes and stimulate the B cells. Thus, an antigen must have two epitopes to stimulate a robust B cell response with affinity maturation. One epitope binds the BCR, and a second must survive digestion and be presented on the B cell surface boundtoaclassIImoleculefortheTCRofahelperTcell. SeveralfactorslikelyaffectthedegreetowhichhelperTcellepitopes modulate the immunodominance
