Immunology
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, binding, host, response, epitopes, different, epitope, parasite, antigenic, variants, immune, antibodies, chapter, antigens


host. For example,the numberof parasitesintheinoculum frequentlyinfluences whetheraninfection is clearedquicklyorspreadswidely. These various parasite attributes and the rate parameters that gov- ern parasite birth and death within hosts must be measured against the kinetics of immunological memory and the response to secondary infection. The quantitative outcome influences the selective pressure imposed on various parasite epitopes by host memory. Such selective pressure,inturn,shapesthedistributionofantigenicvariationinpara- sitepopulations. 9.3 Immunodominanceof Memory A host’s immunological memory profile depends on three factors. First, which parasite variants have infected that host in the past? Sec- ond, to which epitopes didthe hostrespond?—the immunodominance of primary response. Third, to which of the primary epitopes has the hostretainedmemory?—theimmunodominanceofthememoryprofile. The immunological profile of each host andthe variation of profiles between hosts influence the selective pressures imposed on parasite antigens. For the profile of each host, consider as a simple measure of immunodominance the number of epitopes to which a host retains protectiveantibody. Ifahostretainsprotectionagainstnepitopes,then avariantparasitestrainmustdifferinatleastnsitestoavoidallmem- ory. If the mutation rate per site is µ, then the probability is µn that a progeny of the original strain is an escape variant with all of the n necessarydifferences. Severallaboratoryexperimentsofinfluenzahavestudiedtheoriginof escapevariantswhenneutralizingantibodypressureisimposedagainst viralepitopes(Yewdelletal.1979,1986;Lambkinetal.1994). Foranti- bodiesagainstonlyasingleepitope,escapevariantsariseoftenbecause only a single mutation is needed. The mutation rate of influenza is on theorderofµ=10−5 pernucleotidepergeneration. Thus,amoderate- size population of viruses likely has at least a few escape mutants. By contrast, antibody selection againsttwoor more epitopes rarelyyields escapemutants, becausethe probabilityofmultiple mutations, µn, be- comessmallrelativetotheeffectivesizeofthepopulation. IMMUNOLOGICAL VARIABILITY OF HOSTS 133 Theselaboratoryexperimentsshowthatabroaderantibodyresponse against multiple epitopes impedes the origin of new variants. By con- trast,amorefocusedimmunodominantresponseallowstherapidevo- lutionofescapevariants. Similarly,persistentviralinfections withinhostsresponddifferently to narrow versus broad CTL pressure (Wodarz and Nowak 2000). A highlyimmunodominantCTLresponseallowsrapidevolutionofescape mutants andcontinuing changewithinhosts. Bycontrast, abroadCTL responseagainstmultipleepitopesimpedestheoriginofescapevariants andleadstorelativelyslowevolutionofviruseswithinahost. To determine the selective pressures imposed on parasite popula- tions, the immunodominance of each host’s memory profile must be placed in the context of variation in memory profiles between hosts. Suppose,forexample,thataparasitehastwodistinctantigenicsites. A parasitewithgenotypeA/Batthetwositessweepsthroughthepopula- tion,infectingallhosts. One-halfofthehostpopulationmaintainsmem- ory against both antigens, one-quarter has immunodominant memory againstAonly,andone-quarterhasimmunodominantmemoryagainst B only. Nowconsiderhowthisdistributionofmemoryprofilesinfluencesthe success of antigenic variants. A mutation at a single site, for example B, yields an altered parasite, A/B(cid:1). This mutant can attack the quar- ter of the host population with memory only against B. As the para- sitespreads,asecondmutationtoA(cid:1)/B(cid:1) allowsattackoftheremaining hosts. Thisexampleshowsthatstronglyimmunodominanthostprofileslim- ited to one or a few sites allow parasite mutants with few changes to succeed. Once the variant parasite begins to spreadbetween suscepti- blehosts,additionalmutationsallowattackagainsthostswithdifferent immunodominant profiles or againsthosts that developedbroaderim- munityagainstmultipleantigenicsites. Influenzaevolutionmayproceedbythissortofsequentialaccumula- tionofvariation,withnewepidemicstrainsdifferingfromtheprevious epidemic strain at several sites (Natali et al. 1981; Underwood 1984;
