Immunology
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, binding, host, response, epitopes, different, epitope, parasite, antigenic, variants, immune, antibodies, chapter, antigens


HC45 antibodiesintheirrelativeaffinitiesforfreeHAmoleculesandHAmol- ecules on the surface of viral particles. HC19 binds to the tips of HA molecules awayfrom the viralsurface; thus HC19facesrelativelylittle obstruction when binding to intact HA on viruses. By contrast, HC45 bindsawayfromthetipsofHA,towardtheviralsurface. Thisrequires HC45 to diffuse through the HA spikes, slowing the rate of HA-HC45 association and reducing the net affinity of the binding. Clearly, neu- tralizationdependsonthestructuralenvironmentofintactepitopes. EXPERIMENTAL EVOLUTION: INFLUENZA 213 Other studies have noted differences betweenantibodies intheir re- lations between binding and neutralization (Dimmock 1993; Schofield et al. 1997b, 1997a; Edwards and Dimmock 2000; Sanna et al. 2000). The site of antibody attachment, the kinetics of antibody binding, and themechanismbywhichantibodiesinterferewithviralsuccessalllikely playaroleindeterminingthestrengthofnaturalselectiononvariousre- gionsoftheHAmolecule. (Seesection13.4below,FitnessConsequences ofSubstitutions.) Various structural mechanisms allow HA escape mutants to reduce binding byantibodies(Fleuryetal.1998). Bulkysidechains maycause sterichindrancethatinterfereswithantibody-epitopecontact. Glycosy- lation adds surface carbohydrates that can prevent antibody access to potentialepitopes(Catonetal.1982;Skeheletal.1984;CoxandBender 1995). Some substitutions may destroy key hydrogen bonds. Alterna- tively, amino acid changes sometimes cause physical displacement of variousproteinloops. Fleuryetal.(1998)comparedbindingofanantibodytoanoriginalHA epitope and to a mutation of that epitope with changed conformation. When the antibody bound to the mutant epitope, the antibody-epitope complex reverted to the same structure as the antibody bound to the originaltype. However,theenergyrequiredtodistorttheconformation of the mutant epitope during binding reduced the binding affinity of the antibody by 4,000-fold relative to the affinity of the antibody for theoriginaltype. Thesevariousstudiesofantibodybinding,structure, andkineticsprovidenecessarybackgroundforanalysesofevolutionary changeattheaminoacidlevel. I now turn to NA, which has not been studied as intensively as HA (Colman1998). ThefunctionofNAisnotcompletelyunderstood(Lamb andKrug2001). Ingeneral,neuraminidaseenzymescleavecertainlink- ages within sialic acid. Sialic acid components of host cells form the primary site of influenza attachment. Thus, NA appears to cleave the host receptorsto whichinfluenza binds. This function seemstoaidin releasingprogenyviralparticlesfrominfectedhostcells. Itmaybethatviruseslackingneuraminidaseactivityenterhostcells andreplicate, butgetstuck onthe surfaceofthe cell byattachment to sialic acid (Palese and Compans 1976). Kilbourne et al. (1968) showed 214 CHAPTER 13 slowtherateatwhichviruseskillhostcells—perhapsbyreducingviral spreadfrominfectedtouninfectedcells. 13.2 AntibodyEscapeMutants Severaldifferentexperimentalmethods andlines ofevidencecanbe usedtoinferthenatureofantibodypressureonantigenicvariation. First, surface mapping determines which amino acids occur in sites accessibletoantibodies. Underwood(1982,1984)raisedapanelof125 mouse IgG MAbs against HA. Underwood compared the reactivities of the MAb panel against different natural and laboratory sequence vari- ants of HA. Statistical methods identified which changed amino acids causedareductioninantibodybinding. Thechangedaminoacidswere locatedonthethree-dimensionalHAstructureprovidedbyWilsonetal. (1981). AlmosttheentiredistalexposedsurfaceofHAreactedwithanti- body,suggestingthattheexposedregionsprovideanearlycontinuous surface of potential epitopes. Antigenic sites B and D (fig. 13.2) con- tainedagreaterproportionofepitopesthanotherregionsand,atleast in particular laboratory mice, those sites appear to be more antigenic thanothersites. There are some problems with inferring antibody pressure by map- ping surface antigenicity. Different natural and laboratory isolates of influenzamayhavemultiple aminoaciddifferences. This makesitdif- ficult to assign changed antibody binding either to single amino
