Immunology
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, binding, host, response, epitopes, different, epitope, parasite, antigenic, variants, immune, antibodies, chapter, antigens


of parasites and the populations of different immune cells determine immunodominance, the number of different epitopes thatstimulateastrongimmuneresponse. Immunodominancesetsthenumberofaminoacidsubstitutionsneed- edtoavoidhost recognition. This aggregaterecognition atthe levelof individualhostscontrolsthespreadofantigenicvariantsthroughapop- ulationofpreviouslyexposedhosts. Thus,molecularinteractionsaffect immunodominance,andimmunodominancesetsthepaceofevolution- arychangeandthedistributionofvariantsinparasitepopulations. 16.3 BindingKineticsand the Dynamicsof Immunodominance Thecontrolofimmunodominanceremainspoorlyunderstood. Rao’s (1999) analyses suggest the kinds of studies that may generate new insight. Rao showed that initial stimulation of B cells depended on SOME INTERESTING PROBLEMS 267 an affinity window for binding between antibodies and epitopes. Low- affinity binding did not stimulate division of B cell lineages, whereas high-affinity antibodies bound the antigen so effectively that the B cell receptorsreceivedlittle stimulation. Intermediateaffinityprovidedthe strongeststimulationforinitialexpansionofBcellclones. After initial stimulation and production of IgM, the next phase of B cell competition occurs during affinity maturation and the shift to IgG production. TheBcellreceptorswiththehigheston-ratesofbindingfor antigentendedtowintheracetopassthroughaffinitymaturation. The limitingstepmaybecompetitionforstimulationbyhelperTcells. This competition for T cell help apparently depends on the rate at which B cellsacquireantigensratherthanontheequilibriumaffinityofbinding toantigens. Equilibrium affinity is the ratio ofthe rate atwhich bonds form (on- rate) to the rate at which bonds break (off-rate). The contrast between the earlyselectionofequilibrium affinity(on:offratio)andthelaterse- lection of on-rate may provide insight into the structural features of binding that separatelycontrol on-rates andoff-rates. Thisis a superb opportunitytorelatestructuretofunctionviathekineticprocessesthat regulatetheimmuneresponse. 16.4 DiversityandRegulation of ArchivalRepertoires Some parasites store archival libraries of antigenic variants in their genomes. Switching expression between variants may allow the para- site to escaperecognition byimmune responsesdirectedat previously expressed variants. Alternatively, a sequence of variants may exploit themechanismsofimmunerecognitionandregulationtointerferewith the ability of the host to mount new responses to variants expressed later in the sequence. Variants can potentially interfere with new host responsesbyexploitingoriginalantigenicsin—thetendencyofthehost to enhance a cross-reactive response to a previously encountered anti- geninsteadofgeneratinganew andmore focusedresponsetoanovel variant. Theinterestingproblemconcernstheevolutionofthearchivalreper- toire. How do the different molecular mechanisms of escape and im- mune interference shape the diversity and cross-reactivity of variants storedwithineachparasite’sgenome? 268 CHAPTER 16 The type of immune recognition may influence the pattern of diver- sificationbetweenantigenicvariants. Forexample,IgMantibodieswith relativelylowaffinityandhighcross-reactivitycontrolBorreliahermsii, a spirochete with an archival library of variants (Barbour and Bundoc 2001). Bycontrast,manyparasitesfacecontrolbythemorehighlyspe- cificIgAandIgGantibodies. ItwouldbeinterestingtoknowifB.hermsii requiresa relativelygreatermolecular distancebetweenvariantstoes- capeIgMcross-reactivitythanparasitescontrolledbyIgGantibodies. If so,thenB.hermsii’svariantsmayhavedivergedunderadifferentpattern of specificity and cross-reactivity from that influencing the divergence ofvariantsinotherparasites. Parasiteswitharchivalvariantshaveparticularlyinterestingdynamics withinhosts. Ifthevariantsareproducedtooquickly,thehostdevelops specificimmunityagainstalltypesearlyintheinfection, andtheinfec- tioncannotpersistforlong. Ifthevariantsarisetooslowly,theparasite risks clearance before switching to a novel type. Thus, the pacing of molecular switches in the parasite must be tuned to the dynamics of thehost’simmuneresponse. Thissystemofcontaineddynamicswithin individual hosts may be particularly amenable to experimental study, providinginsightintotheinteractionsbetweenhostimmunity,antigenic escapevariants,theshapingofantigenicrepertoires,andtheevolution ofthemolecularcontrolsystemsthatregulateantigenicswitching. 16.5 Final Note Thetechnicaladvancesinmolecularbiologyhavegreatlyaccelerated thepaceofdiscoveryinimmunologyandparasitebiology. Whenreview- ingvarioustopics,Ifoundthatmanykeyarticleshadbeenpublishedin thepasteighteenmonths. Thisbook’ssynthesismaysoonbeoutdatedwithregardtothelatest details for each particular subject. But, for the first time,
