Szilagyietal.NutritionJournal (2016) 15:67
KEYWORDS: ibd, lactose, studies, dfs, etal, patients, symptoms, disease, lnp, milk, study, szilagyietal nutritionjournal, review, szilagyietal, nutritionjournal


symptoms from diet are also symptomsof LI inIBD, articlesreferring to LI, or DF in- affected by consumption of Fermentable Oligo, Di, tolerance or sensitivity were also sought, regardless of MonosaccharideAndPolyols(FODMAPs)inIBD. formal testing for lactose digestion. For nutritional im- Lactose is generally excluded in a low FODMAP diet pact, studies investigating DF effects or general diet on independent of lactose digestion status. IBD were sought. The latter had to include reference to It also remains unclear what role DF avoidance has on milk or DFs. Additional references were manually ex- nutritional effects on patients with IBD. This systematic tracted from review articlesonthetopic. review seeks primarily to determine the prevalence of LM in IBD and establish whether there is a bias toward Dataextractionformeta-analysis either phenotype.Secondaryoutcomes were determining Year of publication, country of origin, number of pa- whether symptoms of LI play a role in DF avoidance, tients and controls, type of test for LM, test outcomes, andwhether DF restrictionimpactsonIBD course. distribution of CD or UC cases, site of involvement in CD, disease activity at time of testing, and surgical his- tory were recorded from each study. A description of Methods geneticlikelihood of LM for patients versus controls was Searchstrategy estimated. Each study included in the meta-analysis was A review of the literature between Jan 1965 to June 2016 graded by country for low(= grade 1,≤20%LNP),mod- was undertaken. The search engines Medline (Pub Med) erate (= grade 2, 21 –79 % LNP), or high risk (=grade 3, andCochraneLibrarywereusedtoobtainrelevantarticles. LNP ≥80 %), based on classification as per Mishkin Terms used were lactose maldigestion or lactose intoler- andSzilagyi . ance or milk intolerance or lactose sensitivity (LI with sys- temic symptoms) AND Inflammatory Bowel Disease or Qualityassessment Crohn’s disease or Ulcerative colitis. In the case of the Articles included in the meta-analysis were graded based Cochrane library, the terms “systematic review” or “meta- on the Newcastle Ottawa scale for case control studies analysis” were also selected, to narrow the search. Two . In this scheme, high quality studies achieved a authors (AS and PG) independently evaluated articles for score of 5 or more, and scores of 4 or less were consid- inclusion in meta-analysis and disagreement wassettled by ered low quality. Abstracts were not graded. PRISMA consensus. A second search for articles was also included guidelineswerefollowed. with the terms nutritional benefits OR detriments of milk ORdairyproductsinInflammatoryBowelDisease,Chrohn’ Dataanalysis diseaseOrUlcerativecolitis.Referencesofindividualreview For each study, two by two tables
