Szilagyietal.NutritionJournal (2016) 15:67
KEYWORDS: ibd, lactose, studies, dfs, etal, patients, symptoms, disease, lnp, milk, study, szilagyietal nutritionjournal, review, szilagyietal, nutritionjournal


PRISMA consensus. A second search for articles was also included guidelineswerefollowed. with the terms nutritional benefits OR detriments of milk ORdairyproductsinInflammatoryBowelDisease,Chrohn’ Dataanalysis diseaseOrUlcerativecolitis.Referencesofindividualreview For each study, two by two tables of LM status (LM vs. articleswerealsoscreenedforrelevantpublications. not-LM) and IBD status (IBD vs. healthy control) were obtained. For studies with a zero cell, a continuity cor- Definitions rection of 0.5 was used . The association between For the purpose of meta-analysis a clear distinction was LM and IBD were assessed using odds ratios (OR) and madebetweenobjectivetestsofLMvs.symptomsattrib- the corresponding 95 % confidence intervals (CIs). An uted to LI or sensitivity. The reasons for this are that LI OR greater than 1.0 indicates an increased risk of LM is subjective and can occur in the absence of LM and among IBD group compared with the healthy control symptoms elicited during lactose challenge tests do not group. The statistical significance of the summary OR necessarily reflect reactions to DF ingestion. The term was determined with the Z test, and a p-value less than lactose tolerance test (LTT) retains the name but an ab- 0.05wasconsideredstatistically significant. normal test suggests LM and LI may occur as with the The heterogeneity among studies was determined by hydrogen breath test (BT). Small bowel biopsies, urinary the Cochran Q statistics, where a p-value greater than sugar tests or genetic tests define the propensity for LM 0.05 indicates a lack of heterogeneity. The I 2 statistics but donotpredict symptomatic LI. werealsopresented.Forthequalitativeinterpretation Szilagyietal.NutritionJournal (2016) 15:67 Page3of13 ofheterogeneity,I2valuesofatleast50%areusuallycon- sidered to represent substantial heterogeneity, while valuesofatleast75%indicate considerableheterogeneity according to the Cochrane Handbook. The summary OR was obtained using a fixed-effect model (Mantel-Haenszel method)whentherewasalackofheterogeneity(I2≤50%), or a random-effects model (the DerSimonian and Laird method)whenotherwise.Thepotentialpublication bias was estimated by a funnel plot for the overall analysis. Egger’s linear regression test on the natural logarithm scale oftheORwasusedtoassessthefunnelplotasymmetry;the significancewassetatthep<0.05. Sensitivityanalysiswasperformedaccordingtothefol- lowing subgroups: type of IBD (CD or UC), specific dis- ease site in the case of CD (SB-small bowel only, TiC- Terminal ileum and Colon, DC-colon only); type of test (BT-Breath Hydrogen measurement, LTT-Lactose toler- ance test, urinary sugar ratios and small bowel biopsies); and finally evaluation of LM among the low risk group. The purpose of analyzing low risk group separately was that any disease effect involving intestinal lactase levels would be more likely to be detected in this group. All analyses were performed using SAS statistical package, version 9.1(SASInstituteInc., Cary, NC,USA). Results The first search yielded
