Szilagyietal.NutritionJournal (2016) 15:67
KEYWORDS: ibd, lactose, studies, dfs, etal, patients, symptoms, disease, lnp, milk, study, szilagyietal nutritionjournal, review, szilagyietal, nutritionjournal


did find increased prevalence DFs is likely the source of symptoms . Self-reported ofCrohn’sdiseaseinTTgenotype(LPphenotype)persons. LI and active disease were the most important patient Thecurrentobservationshowevercan’truleoutdiffer- reportedreasonsforDF restriction. ent rates or delay in disease development between LP Dietary advice included a milk free diet in UC, regard- and LNP. For example IBD rates are different between lessofLMstatus .Twosuggested. Indigenous populations and Caucasians described both DF restriction with disease activity only . Five in Canada and New Zealand . In both areas In- suggested to restrict if positive LM status is established digenous people are predominantly LNP and Caucasians , while 4 suggested that there was no arepredominantly LP. need torestrict DFsinIBDat all. SymptomsofLI Discussion ItisnolongeraccuratetoequateLIwithLM.Thereason Relationships between IBD and DF suggest that rates of forthisisthatstudiesofLIinpatientswithirritablebowel LM largely reflect ethnic backgrounds of patients. Activ- syndrome (IBS) showed similar frequency of symptoms ity of IBD and small bowel involvement in CD increases whethertheywereLNPorLPphenotype.Another LM rates. Symptoms of LI during tests may not reflect reasonistheabilityofLNPpersonstoadapttocontinued daily DF reactions. Consequences of true or self per- lactose consumption . Lactose in LNP/LI persons in- ceived LI may impact on DF consumption which may duces symptoms (LI) through a metabolic effect on the havevariableoutcomes. microbiome . In LNP persons, continued ingestion of sufficient lactose will lead to microbiome adaptation LactosemaldigestioninIBD resulting in altered metabolomes as well as reduced test In the mid 20th century, milk protein allergy was consid- outcomesforBT. ered a possible cause of UC . As well in the early However ability to adapt to lactose in IBD is unclear 1960s reports emerged showing that intestinal lactase and there are no formal trials. Using lactulose, a disac- levels were diminished in UC and were accompanied by charide with similar properties to lactose failed to show self-restricted and physician-advised reduction of DFs in adaptation compared with healthy controls . Pironi IBD.Theimpactofethnicitywasnotyetproven. et al. however may have detected microbial adaptation The meta-analysis on LM rates does show a statisti- since despite increased LM status only 8 % of CD pa- cally significantincreaseinprevalence.However,analysis tientswerealso LI. ofCD andUC independently revealsthat theoutcomeis There are two other factors which may alter symptoms driven by CD with small bowel CD involvement. Sub tolactose/DFs.AsinthecaseofthestudybyNolan–Clark, analysis of BTalso follows the overall pattern suggesting DFs containing fats may actually be the prime cause of that LM is either secondary to mucosal disease, motility symptoms , a possibility also stressed by Mishkin . Szilagyietal.NutritionJournal (2016) 15:67 Page10of13
