Szilagyietal.NutritionJournal (2016) 15:67
KEYWORDS: ibd, lactose, studies, dfs, etal, patients, symptoms, disease, lnp, milk, study, szilagyietal nutritionjournal, review, szilagyietal, nutritionjournal


fats may actually be the prime cause of that LM is either secondary to mucosal disease, motility symptoms , a possibility also stressed by Mishkin . Szilagyietal.NutritionJournal (2016) 15:67 Page10of13 Aswell,aroleofFODMAPsdrivingfoodsensitivitiesneeds role of calcium and DF intake in IBD-related bone dis- to be considered . Restriction of these may reduce ease is unclear [95–97] or controversial but intui- symptoms in IBD , since irritable bowel syndrome is tivelyisstill important. frequent in IBD even in remission . However, in this Colorectal cancer is increased in IBD colitis and may paradigm,geneticsoflactasemaynotplayarole.Instudies be linked with chronic inflammation also . Calcium reviewed, LI and LM were interchanged in several studies and vitamin D may be protective both for cancer [100, and Eadala introduced the con- 101] andprovideanti-inflammatoryeffects. cept of lactose sensitivity . They reported the highest Risks of cardiovascular complications may be in- symptomrateofanystudy,independentofgeneticanalysis creased in IBD and calcium may contribute by re- and with discrepant outcomes with BTs . The reasons ducing arterial stiffness . Evaluation of the specific for these observations aren’t clear and the study was criti- impactofDFsinIBDrequirefurtherevaluation. cized on methodological grounds . This review in the There are limitations to this review. Conclusions from end doesn’t allow a true estimate of the frequency of LI in meta-analyses are as accurate as the papers reviewed. Al- IBDpatients.Activityofdisease,siteinCDandsurgicalre- though the quality of most studies was rated as adequate, sections variably affected outcome. The overall impression the period spans 50 years with the majority of studies be- isthatselfreportedLIalongwithcounselingledtoDFcon- ingolder.Theperiodofstudyincludes4modalitiesoflac- sumptionrestrictions. taseassessmentandconceptualchangesinthegeneticsof lactase as well as concepts related to symptoms. These Healthrelatedeffectsoflactose/dairyfoodsinIBD variations, as well as inclusion of different populations, Specific impact of milk and DFs consumption on IBD and the few number of studies may well account for het- has not been studied as extensively as on other diseases erogeneity. However, in the studies reviewed for meta- (reviewed in ). In general there are 3 topics to con- analysis patients were always studied in parallel with sider: first is the relationship of DFs to risk of IBD, sec- healthycontrols,andtheoutcomesoughtwasanobjective ond DFs impact on IBD relapse rates, finally possible prevalence of LM in IBD regardless of method of ascer- risksofdietary DFsrestrictions. tainment. To our knowledge, this is the only review to While 2 epidemiological studies suggested a date which derives conclusions based on the available positive correlation of increasing DFs intake with in- literature. creasing incidence of IBD, remaining studies suggested possible protection by
