NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: children, ibs, pain, symptoms, functional, patients, adults, author, manuscript, abdominal pain, abdominal, author manuscript, vomiting, bowel, nih-pa


NIH Public Access Author Manuscript Nutr Clin Pract. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2010 February 13. Published in final edited form as: Nutr Clin Pract. 2008 ; 23(3): 268. doi:. Pediatric Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders Abstract Functional gastrointestinal disorders continue to be a prevalent set of conditions faced by the healthcare team and have a significant emotional and economic impact. In this review, the authors highlight some of the common functional disorders seen in pediatric patients (functional dyspepsia, irritable bowel syndrome, functional abdominal pain) as well as one of the more intriguing (cyclic vomiting). The most recent Pediatric Rome Working Group has modified the definitions of functional gastrointestinal disorders. Current studies have used these categorizations to understand better the epidemiology, etiology, and treatment options for these disorders. As more data are available, children and their families will be offered a better understanding of the conditions and more effective treatments to overcome them. The importance of making an accurate diagnosis of a functional gastrointestinal disorder cannot be overemphasized. Keywords abdominal pain; gastrointestinal diseases; dyspepsia; irritable bowel syndrome; vomiting Functional gastrointestinal disorders (FGIDs) are conditions that include a combination of symptoms that are chronic or recurrent and are not explained entirely with current structural or biochemical investigations. The term functional emphasizes that many of the symptoms may accompany normal development (eg, infant regurgitation) or may be a response to otherwise normal internal or external cues (eg, constipation following painful stooling).1 Historically, one of the earliest descriptions of a FGID in children was by Apley,2 who described a group of children in the community who complained of abdominal pain with no clear etiology that persisted and interfered with daily activities. He coined the phrase recurrent abdominal pain (RAP) to describe this condition. Using Apley’s definition, 10%-17% of school-aged children have RAP.3- 10 Now, however, the term RAP has been modified and subdivided into more defined groups. The most recent revision by the Rome Pediatric Working Group on Functional GI Disorders occurred in 2006.11 The process involved group consensus using clinical experience as well as an extensive review of the literature.11 The goal of this pediatric working group was to make the criteria more useful for both clinician and researcher, facilitating efforts to make an accurate and definitive diagnosis in these children as well as efforts to provide additional evidence-based data regarding FGIDs in children.11 Two studies reviewed the classification of children who previously had
