NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: children, ibs, pain, symptoms, functional, patients, adults, author, manuscript, abdominal pain, abdominal, author manuscript, vomiting, bowel, nih-pa


accurate and definitive diagnosis in these children as well as efforts to provide additional evidence-based data regarding FGIDs in children.11 Two studies reviewed the classification of children who previously had been described as having RAP and © 2008 The American Society for Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition. All rights reserved. views or policies of the USDA, nor does mention of trade names, commercial products, or organizations imply endorsement by the U.S. Government. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript , divided them into subtypes according to the Pediatric Rome criteria (Table 1).1213 The majority of these RAP children met the criteria for irritable bowel syndrome (45%) or functional dyspepsia (16%), whereas the third most frequent was functional abdominal pain (7.5%).12 Another recent study using prospective methods suggested that 65% of RAP children had irritable bowel syndrome and 35% had functional abdominal pain (the latter group may have included some children with functional dyspepsia).14 In this review, we highlight some of the most common functional disorders seen in pediatric patients (functional dyspepsia, irritable bowel syndrome, functional abdominal pain) as well as one of the more intriguing (cyclic vomiting). Functional Dyspepsia The diagnosis of functional dyspepsia (FD) describes persistent or recurrent pain or discomfort localized to the upper abdomen.11 The symptoms commonly occur after eating. Many children miss school because of the pain, nausea, and occasional vomiting attributed to functional , dyspepsia. Studies cite a prevalence between 5% and 16% in the United States.612 Unlike adults, in whom the differential diagnosis is more extensive, in children, cancer of the stomach and esophagus is almost nonexistent, and gastric and duodenal ulcers are much less common. The issue of Helicobacter pylori infection often is raised in individuals with upper GI pain. Although H pylori infection can cause pain as well as ulcers, in children in the United States, H pylori is an uncommon cause of dyspeptic symptoms.15 The etiologies of FD have not been fully elucidated. There is some evidence to show that dysmotility may be involved. Abnormal antral contractility was associated with postprandial nausea in some adults with FD.16 Adolescents with FD demonstrated delayed gastric emptying and decreased gastric volume accommodation after feeding.17 However, in adults, the impaired quality of life did not correlate with delayed gastric emptying.18 Psychological factors may play a role in symptom expression. In adults, patients with FD reported higher anxiety and stress than patients with ulcer disease.19
