NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: children, ibs, pain, symptoms, functional, patients, adults, author, manuscript, abdominal pain, abdominal, author manuscript, vomiting, bowel, nih-pa


not correlate with delayed gastric emptying.18 Psychological factors may play a role in symptom expression. In adults, patients with FD reported higher anxiety and stress than patients with ulcer disease.19 There are no specific diagnostic markers for FD, but careful history and physical exam (including evaluation of growth parameters and stool guaiac testing) can determine if additional testing may be required. As with other FGIDs, the presence of so-called red flag symptoms can suggest the need for further testing but should not exclude the diagnostic possibility of a FGID.20 Historically, red flags included nocturnal symptoms that awaken the patient, involuntary weight loss, deceleration in linear growth, blood in the stool, fever, urinary complaints, pain away from the umbilicus (especially right lower/upper quadrant), family history of inflammatory bowel disease, and/or organomegaly. Although the presence of these findings may suggest a higher pretest probability of organic disease, the specificity and sensitivity of these findings for organic disease has not been determined in pediatric patients. Indeed, Shulman et al14 observed that children with RAP can present with pain remote from the umbilicus. A systematic review reported that frequency, severity, location, and timing of pain do not distinguish organic from functional abdominal pain.21 Because some studies have suggested abnormalities in motility in patients with FD,16,17 some treatments have attempted to enhance gastric emptying. Erythromycin, used frequently to increase and synchronize antral motility, did enhance gastric emptying but was not associated with a beneficial effect on meal-related symptom severity in adults.22 Other motility agents have been used in adults with FD. Itopride, a dopamine agonist with antiacetylcholinesterase effects, significantly improves symptoms in adult patients with functional dyspepsia.23 Studies in adults suggest that the use of a proton pump inhibitor is associated with improvement in symptoms in some individuals with FD in the absence of gastroesophageal reflux or ulcer Nutr Clin Pract. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2010 February 13. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript disease.24 Further studies are needed to find medications that could provide benefit to patients with FD, particularly children. Alternative medicine approaches also are being used for patients with FD. Calvert et al25 showed long-term benefit for patients with FD using hypnotherapy. A recent report demonstrated that acupuncture improves gastric emptying and relieves dyspeptic symptoms in adults with FD and normal gastric emptying.26 Irritable Bowel Syndrome Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), as described by the Rome criteria, includes weekly
