NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: children, ibs, pain, symptoms, functional, patients, adults, author, manuscript, abdominal pain, abdominal, author manuscript, vomiting, bowel, nih-pa


the symptoms of IBS can persist for years.37 It has been suggested that this so-called postinfectious IBS may be responsible for up to 30% of cases in adults.38 Along these lines, some patients with IBS have demonstrated increased proinflammatory cytokines, suggesting that intestinal inflammation may play a role in IBS symptoms.39 One particular type of inflammatory cell that has been studied in IBS is the mast cell, also involved in histamine reactions in allergic diseases. In animal studies, these cells can excite gut sensory nerves, leading to symptoms similar to IBS in humans.40 Adults with diarrhea-predominant IBS have been noted to have a marked increase of mast cells in their small intestine.41 What role inflammation plays in the etiology of IBS symptoms in children requires further study. Another important factor is the psychological component. The way children handle stressors may contribute to the development or expression of FGIDs, including IBS. Adults with high levels of stress and anxiety are more likely to develop IBS after a GI infection.42 Other studies Nutr Clin Pract. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2010 February 13. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript have demonstrated that the way children handle their stressors may predispose them to FGID symptoms. For example, children with RAP were more likely to use less effective coping strategies to handle stress than control children.43 In fact, the use of less effective coping skills also was associated with depressive symptoms, which may accompany many of the FGIDs.44 Treatments for IBS have targeted the possible causes of the visceral hypersensitivity, including the potential role of small intestinal bacterial overgrowth. Pimentel et al45 demonstrated in adults that the nonabsorbed oral antibiotic rifaximin can improve IBS symptoms. In addition, peppermint oil, a smooth muscle relaxant that also has antimicrobial properties, was effective in reducing severity of pain associated with IBS in children.46 Probiotics, bacteria designed to repopulate the gut and possibly demonstrate anti-inflammatory effects, have been evaluated as treatments for IBS symptoms. In children and adults, the modest benefits appear to be species specific,47-49 and further studies are awaited to establish the exact role that probiotics can play in treating IBS. Serotonin, a hormone involved in gut motility, also has been targeted for treatment of IBS patients. Two examples include the serotonin receptor agonist tegaserod (recently taken off the market due to adverse side effects) used to treat constipation-predominant IBS, and the serotonin
