NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: children, ibs, pain, symptoms, functional, patients, adults, author, manuscript, abdominal pain, abdominal, author manuscript, vomiting, bowel, nih-pa


treatment of IBS patients. Two examples include the serotonin receptor agonist tegaserod (recently taken off the market due to adverse side effects) used to treat constipation-predominant IBS, and the serotonin receptor antagonist alosetron, which is available on a restricted-use basis (again because of side effects) to treat diarrhea-predominant IBS. Another more central approach involves the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) citalopram. In adults, citalopram was shown to improve IBS symptoms (but with less effect on stool pattern) compared with placebo. This effect was independent of its effect on anxiety or depression.50 Similar benefits also were seen with citalopram in children with functional abdominal pain.51 The hormone melatonin also reduced IBS pain symptoms in adults, independent of its effect on sleep or psychological profiles when compared with placebo.52 The tricyclic antidepressant amitriptyline was shown to reduce brain activation during pain, especially during stress, suggesting a potential role in blunting pain and symptoms caused by stress in IBS.53 Whether these treatments will be effective in children has yet to be elucidated, but studies are under way. Fiber supplementation has proven beneficial in 1 double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in children with recurrent abdominal pain.54 Further studies are anticipated to determine the benefit of fiber treatment in children with IBS. Functional Abdominal Pain According to the Rome criteria, functional abdominal pain (FAP) is characterized by weekly abdominal pain lasting at least 2 months.11 It is distinguished from FD by the location of pain and from IBS by the lack of bowel symptoms. When the pain interferes with activities or is accompanied by other somatic symptoms (eg, headache, sleeping disturbance, extremity pain, or dizziness), it is labeled as functional abdominal pain syndrome (FAPS). A systematic review of the literature using the search criterion recurrent abdominal pain (the term that includes functional abdominal pain) found the prevalence in children of Western countries to range from 0.3% to 19%, with a median of 8.4%. The highest prevalence was in women and children older than age 4 years to adolescence.55 As with IBS, children with FAP appear to have an underlying visceral hypersensitivity. For example, children with IBS and FAP have increased rectal sensitivity compared with controls. In addition, these children have abnormal pain referral after rectal distension, suggesting modified pain receptors and/or interpretation.31 DiLorenzo et al56 demonstrated that sites of visceral hyperalgesia can differentiate FAP and IBS; IBS patients demonstrate more rectal Nutr Clin Pract. Author manuscript; available
