NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: children, ibs, pain, symptoms, functional, patients, adults, author, manuscript, abdominal pain, abdominal, author manuscript, vomiting, bowel, nih-pa


modified pain receptors and/or interpretation.31 DiLorenzo et al56 demonstrated that sites of visceral hyperalgesia can differentiate FAP and IBS; IBS patients demonstrate more rectal Nutr Clin Pract. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2010 February 13. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript hypersensitivity than children with FAP, and FAP patients demonstrate more gastric hypersensitivity than IBS patients. Caring for children with FAP can be difficult for both the parent and the physician. Many parents provide extra attention to their children in hope of ameliorating the pain. In a study by Walker et al,57 children with abdominal pain underwent water load testing (the children drank a volume of water that caused less intense but representative abdominal pain), and parents were randomly assigned to provide either attention to the pain with reassurance and sympathy or distraction away from the pain. The parents of children with abdominal pain rated that “distraction” would have a greater negative impact on their child than “attention.” Surprisingly, the children in the distraction group rated their parents as making them feel better compared with those from the attention group. The treatments aimed at treating the abdominal pain in IBS also are used for patients with FAP (see above). Complementary medical approaches also have been used. Gut-directed hypnotherapy is highly effective in the treatment of children with longstanding FAP or IBS, demonstrating reduction in pain scores when compared with medical therapy.58 Combination therapy with psychological treatment (ie, cognitive behavioral therapy) combined with medical treatment appears to be the most effective for helping children overcome these FGIDs.59 Cyclic Vomiting Syndrome Although cyclic vomiting syndrome (CVS) is not a very prevalent diagnosis (1%-3%), it merits special attention for its unique characteristics and predilection for children.60, 61 The Rome criteria describe a recurrent period of intense nausea and unremitting vomiting over hours to days separated by symptom-free intervals lasting weeks to months.1 In a study that frequency of episodes was ≤9/month.62 The episodes often escalate rapidly and often terminate as abruptly as they started. It appears to be more prevalent in children than adults, especially children ages 2-7 years old, although the prevalence for adults is not well described.63 Accompanying symptoms can include headache, phonophobia, photophobia, fever, loose stools, skin blotching, and leukocytosis. Given these associations, it should come as no surprise that many of these children have other pain syndromes, particularly migraine headaches (11%) 64 and IBS (62%).65 In
