NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: children, ibs, pain, symptoms, functional, patients, adults, author, manuscript, abdominal pain, abdominal, author manuscript, vomiting, bowel, nih-pa


blotching, and leukocytosis. Given these associations, it should come as no surprise that many of these children have other pain syndromes, particularly migraine headaches (11%) 64 and IBS (62%).65 In fact, family histories of IBS and/or migraine headaches are common. A recent study confirmed that patients with CVS, their mothers, and their grandmothers had twice the prevalence of migraine headaches compared with controls.66 Similar to migraines, many of these children are able to identify circumstances that trigger the vomiting episodes. These can include anxiety, excitement, infections, or physical exhaustion. 67 Despite the identification, these triggers are often difficult to avoid. The symptoms can lead some to pursue a path of investigation that can be costly in both time and money for the patients. This can include tests to exclude intracranial neoplasia, vestibulitis, obstructive uropathy, gastrointestinal obstruction, recurrent pancreatitis, metabolic and endocrine disease, and/or familial dysautonomia.68 It is important to keep CVS on the differential when evaluating a child with recurrent vomiting episodes as recognition of the pattern will allow for earlier treatment of the disease and family relief. Cyclic vomiting syndrome is related to repeated activation of the vomiting reflex. The vomiting reflex is associated with 2 centers in the brain, the chemoreceptor trigger zone and the central vomiting center. These centers receive input from visceral afferents as well as higher centers Nutr Clin Pract. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2010 February 13. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript (thalamus, hypothalamus, inner ear, cerebral cortex). The input may include visceral, olfactory, or vestibular stimuli or stress interpretation. If the input to the vomiting center exceeds a certain threshold, the vomiting process is initiated with preejection autonomic activation (salivation, pallor, headache, nausea, etc). In many CVS patients, this autonomic activation can be intense with release of corticotropin, vasopressin, norepinephrine, and prostaglandin F. After this preejection phase, the ejection phase follows with repeated vomiting and retching.63 The cause of CVS is not completely understood. Given the prevalence of maternal migraine headaches, studies have investigated the possible role of mitochondrial deoxyribonucleic acid , (mtDNA) mutations.6169 The study by Wang et al69 found differences in mtDNA sequences in children with CVS as well as migraine without aura (the headache type commonly associated with CVS) when compared with control children. They suggested that this mitochondrial component to the disease may imply that avoidance of fasting could prove helpful in these children. The
