NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: children, ibs, pain, symptoms, functional, patients, adults, author, manuscript, abdominal pain, abdominal, author manuscript, vomiting, bowel, nih-pa


associated with CVS) when compared with control children. They suggested that this mitochondrial component to the disease may imply that avoidance of fasting could prove helpful in these children. The treatment for CVS involves a dual approach of abortive and preventive therapy depending on the severity of symptoms. The preventive approach includes tricyclic antidepressants (amitriptyline), cyproheptadine, phenobarbital, or propranolol. These medications decrease the sensitivity of the chemoreceptor trigger zone in the brain medulla that is partially responsible for the vomiting episodes. They have been shown to reduce or eliminate the vomiting episodes in many children with CVS.70- Abortive therapy is best administered during the preceding prodrome before the nausea and vomiting start. Ondansetron, erythromycin, and ibuprofen also have been used. With the vomiting, an acid-blocking agent can help protect the esophagus and teeth but does not affect the symptoms. Lorazepam, an anxiolytic/sedative, also acts as an antiemetic and can be helpful early in the course. For some, intravenous fluids and treatment are needed. Intravenous combinations of ondansetron, granisetron, diphenhydramine, and chlorpromazine may be effective.63,73 Considering the extensive and often expensive diagnostic workup that many patients with FGIDs can receive, Olson and Li74 looked at the cost-effectiveness of different diagnostic and treatment options for CVS. They compared empiric treatment alone, upper GI radiographic series with small bowel follow-through, and empiric treatment vs extensive diagnostic evaluation. They found that this GI radiographic imaging modality plus empiric migraine therapy was the most cost-effective strategy for treating CVS. The cost of adding the GI radiographic imaging was less than the cost of complications from missing a GI obstruction. Summary FGIDs are a cause of great distress and morbidity in children and adults. We have learned a lot since Apley’s description of “recurrent abdominal pain” was published. As more data are available, we will offer these children and their families a better understanding of the conditions and more effective treatments to overcome them. The importance of making a positive diagnosis of a FGID cannot be overstressed. Children and their parents need to understand that they have a medical diagnosis and not one that is solely psychologically based. Management and treatment must take into account the physiological and psychological contributions to symptom expression.
