Gut, 1967, 8, 115
KEYWORDS: spasm, cardiospasm, kramer, fig, diffuse, oesophagus, diffuse spasm, motility, mecholyl, ofthe, contractions, manometric, ingelfinger, symptoms, oesophageal


Gut, 1967, 8, 115 Transition from symptomatic diffuse spasm to cardiospasm' PHILIP KRAMER, LAURAN D. HARRIS, AND ROBERT M. DONALDSON, JR. Boston UniversityMedicalCenter, U.S.A. EDITORIAL COMMENT This paper provides further evidence that these two conditions may be related disorders. The transition from diffuse spasm to cardiospasm is recorded in one patient. In previous communications (Kramer, Fleshler, and Over the next six or so years his symptom did not McNally, 1963; Kramer, Fleshler, McNally, and change particularly, except that he appeared to have Harris, to be published) we suggested that sympto- heartburn and a burning epigastric distress. He was matic diffuse spasm and cardiospasm are related oesophagoscoped in 1962 at the Boston Veterans Administration Hospital and a mild oesophagitis was disorders. This conclusion was based upon the find- visualized; aregimenofelevation ofthehead ofthe bed ing that the oesophagus of patients with sympto- and frequent antacid ingestion was instituted. matic diffuse spasm responds in a hypersensitive In 1963 dysphagia became worse so that soft foods fashion to Mecholyl, aphenomenon which has been seemed to become lodged in the oesophagus and he accepted as being characteristic of cardiospasm would have to drink at least 8 ounces ofwater or take (Kramer and Ingelfinger, 1951; Hightower, Olsen, 'heavy solid' substances to force the food through into and Moersch, 1954). the stomach. If the food did not become dislodged he The purpose of this report is to present further would become nauseated and would vomit or belch. evidence supporting this suggestion by describing Belching would often bring up undigested food. Several times during the period he was awakened at night with the changes in symptoms and oesophageal motility foodinhismouthornose. Helost8 lb. inweight. that occurred in a patient during eight years of Because of symptoms and x-ray findings, a forceful observation. When he was first seen in 1956 his dilatation with a Browne-McHardy dilator was per- oesophageal radiographs, balloon-kymographic, and formed.Sincethattime(September, 1963),hisswallowing manometricrecordingsweretypicalofdiffusespasm. hasimprovedgreatly, foodnowpassingintothestomach In 1963 and 1964 these examinations revealed the with little difficulty. Belching, nausea, vomiting, and characteristic radiographic and motility pattern of regurgitation have disappeared completely. Epigastric cardiospasm. burning is still a frequent complaint. MOTILITY STUDIES CASE HISTORY Oesophageal motility was investigated by means of F.C., a man aged 70, noted the onset of difficulty in radiography following a barium swallow, balloon- swallowingatage61 in1955. Hewasthenadmittedtothe kymography, and manometry. Standard methods Boston Veterans Administration Hospital. In 1956 his symptoms were offood stickingat the level ofthe
