Gut, 1967, 8, 115
KEYWORDS: spasm, cardiospasm, kramer, fig, diffuse, oesophagus, diffuse spasm, motility, mecholyl, ofthe, contractions, manometric, ingelfinger, symptoms, oesophageal


difficulty in radiography following a barium swallow, balloon- swallowingatage61 in1955. Hewasthenadmittedtothe kymography, and manometry. Standard methods Boston Veterans Administration Hospital. In 1956 his symptoms were offood stickingat the level ofthe lower were utilized as previously described (Kramer and end ofthe sternum. All foods wouldproduce this sensa- Ingelfinger, 1949; Fleshler, Hendrix, Kramer, and tion but solid foods were particular offenders. Pain on Ingelfinger, 1958). During this long period of swallowing as well as retrosternal discomfort without observation eight balloon-kymographic and seven swallowing were often felt. He also described a feeling manometric studies were performed; only those as ifhis swallowing tube would open and close. He fre- which are particularly pertinent will be discussed. quentlywasawakenedat 2 to 3a.m. with high epigastric distress which he described as a fullness or a 'gassy' RADIOGRAPHY Examination of the oesophagus in sensation.Atnotimewasthereanyregurgitation,nausea, 1956withthepatientintheuprightpositionrevealed orvomiting. His weight was stable. that this organ was somewhat dilated and emptying 'Thisinvestigation wassupported byPublicHealthServiceResearch wasslightlydelayed.Thesphinctericsegmentopened grant no. AM 03560 from the National Institute ofArthritis and MetabolicDiseases. readily. When in the right anterior oblique prone 116 Philip Kramer, Lauran D. Harris, andRobert M. Donaldson, Jr. A. II. (. FIG. IA. Radiographs taken in 1956showsegmentalcontractions. Thesphinctericarea isopen widely. Thediagnosisof symptomaticdiffusespasmwasmadeatthistime. FIG. lB. Segmental contractions were markedly decreasedinan oesophagram taken in 1962. The upper one-halfofthe oesophagus wassomewhatdilated. A largeepiphrenic diverticulum canbeseen in theloweroesophagus. FIG. 1C. In 1963 the entire oesophagus was more dilatedandcontractions were seen only occasionally. Intheterminal portion oftheoesophagusanarrowedtaperedareaisseen. Theappearance is thatofcardiospasm. position, primary peristalsis was seen to proceed as beengivenandafteranhouronlyaminimalamount far as the arch ofthe aorta and then the lower two- was seen to have entered the stomach. thirdsoftheoesophaguscontractedasawhole,show- Re-examination in the upright position in 1964, ing localized segmental contraction (Fig. 1A). i.e., after the dilatation, revealed that the distal A change in the appearance of the gullet was narrowedareanowwasopenedwidelyandemptying observed in 1962; the upper half was now dilated occurred readily. In the prone position, the oeso- and there was an epiphrenic diverticulum (Fig. 1B). phagus was still markedly dilated, occasional A more radical alteration in appearance was noted localized segmental contractions were observed; no in 1963 (Fig. IC); the entire oesophagus was now emptying occurred during the one-half hour of markedly dilated and there was a fluid level. Above observation. theepiphrenic diverticulum, thegullethadasigmoid appearance, while below it ended in a narrowed BALLOON-KYMOGRAPHY A balloon -kymographic tapered segment. A small quantity of barium had tracing in 1956(Fig. 2A) showedtone of 13 ml.,
