Gut, 1967, 8, 115
KEYWORDS: spasm, cardiospasm, kramer, fig, diffuse, oesophagus, diffuse spasm, motility, mecholyl, ofthe, contractions, manometric, ingelfinger, symptoms, oesophageal


diverticulum, thegullethadasigmoid appearance, while below it ended in a narrowed BALLOON-KYMOGRAPHY A balloon -kymographic tapered segment. A small quantity of barium had tracing in 1956(Fig. 2A) showedtone of 13 ml., and Transitionfrom symptomaticdiffusespasm to cardiospasm 117 FIG. 2. Balloon-kymographic tracingsobtainedin 1956(A) AIR and1964(B). Both demonstrate C.C. lumen-obliterating contractions in response toMecholyl. In the lowertracingtheresponse to 8mg. isshown because thegraph obtainedwith 6mg. was technically inferioranddifficult to reproduce. The6mg. response wassimilar to that with the8 mg. dose. AIR C.C. aregularwavepatternof15 contractionsperminute was irregular so that the number ofcontractions per (normal average 8 per minute) (Kramer and Ingel- minute could not be counted. The response to finger, 1949). Three and 6 mg. of Mecholyl intra- Mecholyl was unchanged, i.e., the same lumen- muscularly produced a lumen-obliterating contrac- obliteratingcontraction occurred. Thewavepattern, tion expelling all air from the balloon, a response tone,andMecholyleffectwereidenticaltothoseseen which has been defined as demonstrating hyper- in cardiospasm. sensitivity to Mecholyl (Kramer and Ingelfinger, 1951); at the same timethe patient statedheexperi- MANOMETRY Repeated manometric recordings in enced retrosternal pain identical to that he felt on 1956, 1957, 1959, and 1960 revealed the charac- swallowing. teristic motility pattern ofdiffuse spasm, i.e., repeti- A repeat study in 1964 (Fig. 2B) showed that the tive, simultaneous, non-peristaltic contractions in- tone now was lower, being 25 ml., the wave pattern volving a long segment ofthe oesophagus although FIG. 3. Manometric tracings obtainedin 1959 during one study; the catheter tips are 6 cm. apart. Inpanels A andB themiddletip isin thesphinctericareaandthedistaltip isin thestomach. A normalsphincteric openingpattern isseen following adryswallow. In C, D, andE all the catheter tipsare in the oesophagus. Cshows that the contractions are sequential thereby demonstrating normalperistalsis. In D the waves obtained via the proximal and middle tip occur simultaneously. InpanelE, a wetswallowproducedsimultaneousrepetitive contractions typicalofditfusespasm. 118 Philip Kramer, Lauran D. Harris, andRobert M. Donaldson, Jr. FIG. 4. Manonmetric tracings obtainedin 1964. Thedistaltip' is48 cm.from the external naresjust afteritpassed through thediaphragmona centimetre by centimetre pull-through ofthecatheter ensemble. Nohighpressure zone- couldbedetected. Thedistal tipshould, however, be in the sphinctericarea. Onlyfeeble simultaneouscontractions were seenin thebodyofthe oesophagusfollowingadryin A anda wetswallow in B. A B a normal peristaltic wave was rarely seen. All the spasm, we have not found documentation of this tracings shown inFig. 3 were obtained from one transformation by motility studies. Before this study in 1959. In Figs. 3Aand 3B therecordings via change can be accepted as being demonstrated, two the middle tip demonstrate a high resting pressure questions
