Gut, 1967, 8, 115
KEYWORDS: spasm, cardiospasm, kramer, fig, diffuse, oesophagus, diffuse spasm, motility, mecholyl, ofthe, contractions, manometric, ingelfinger, symptoms, oesophageal


motility studies. Before this study in 1959. In Figs. 3Aand 3B therecordings via change can be accepted as being demonstrated, two the middle tip demonstrate a high resting pressure questions must be answered: 1 Did our patient indicating a closed sphincter; on swallowing an originally have diffuse spasm or did he represent an 'opening' pattern is seen. All catheter tips are in the atypical case of cardiospasm from the beginning? distal one-half of the oesophagus in Fig. 3C; the 2 Does he presently have cardiospasm? contraction waves following a swallow are sequen- While his symptoms of dysphagia, odynophagia, tial thus indicating normal peristalsis. In Fig. 3D, and lower retrosternal pain which awakened him the waves obtained via the proximal two catheters from sleep were more characteristic ofsymptomatic occursimultaneously afteradryswallow,thepattern diffuse spasm they could occur in atypical cardio- of diffuse spasm. Following a swallow of water, spasm. The oesophageal radiographic findings after simultaneous, repetitive, non-peristaltic contrac- a barium swallow of localized, segmental contrac- tions are observed (Fig. 3E). tions, the minimal dilatation, and only slightly im- Manometric recordings obtained in 1964 (Fig. 4) paired emptying were more suggestive of diffuse now demonstrated a marked alteration in motility. spasm than cardiospasm. Balloon-kymography was No zone ofelevated restingpressure was detected in of little value in differential diagnosis since the thesphinctericareaandnoopeningpatternoccurred control tracings in normal elderly individuals are at any time. The absence of the elevated resting often bizarre. The response to Mecholyl was of no pressureandopeningpattern, however, couldbedue diagnostic significance since we have demonstrated to theforceful dilatation in theprevious year. Inthe that the oesophagus in symptomatic diffuse spasm body of the oesophagus only feeble simultaneous as well as in cardiospasm reacts in a hypersensitive contractions were seen on dry or wet swallows; a fashion to Mecholyl (Kramer et al., 1963; Kramer slight rise in basal pressure occurred with the latter. and Ingelfinger, 1951). The manometric records, Atnotimewasnormalperistalsis observedfollowing however, weremoreconsistent withthe diagnosis of many swallows. Themanometric tracing inthebody diffuse spasm and exclude the possibility ofcardio- of the oesophagus was now like that observed in spasm, because ofthefindings ofa sphincteric open- advanced cardiospasm. ingand occasional normal peristalsis. Does this patient now have cardiospasm? The DISCUSSION substernal pressure on eating, which could be relieved by washing his food through with water, Although Barrett (1964) stated that hehad observed and theregurgitationaresymptoms ofcardiospasm. casesofdiffusespasmwhichlaterlookedlikecardio- The findings of a dilated oesophagus with a fluid Transitionfiom symptomatic diffuse spasm
