Gut, 1967, 8, 115
KEYWORDS: spasm, cardiospasm, kramer, fig, diffuse, oesophagus, diffuse spasm, motility, mecholyl, ofthe, contractions, manometric, ingelfinger, symptoms, oesophageal


washing his food through with water, Although Barrett (1964) stated that hehad observed and theregurgitationaresymptoms ofcardiospasm. casesofdiffusespasmwhichlaterlookedlikecardio- The findings of a dilated oesophagus with a fluid Transitionfiom symptomatic diffuse spasm to cardiospasm 119 level, the marked impairment of emptying, the records were quite characteristic of cardiospasm. absence ofperistalsis on swallowing, thepresence of This progressive change from a picture of diffuse a narrowed tapered area are the typical x-ray spasm to one of cardiospasm provides further changesofcardiospasm.Excellentreliefofsymptoms evidencethat these two disorders arerelated. byaforcefuldilatationalsoistypicalofcardiospasm. Balloon-kymography and manometry support the diagnosis: the former because of the oesophageal REFERENCES hypersensitivitytoMecholyl,thelatterbecauseofthe Kramer, P., Fleshler, B., and McNally, E. (1963). Thepathophysio- feeble non-peristaltic contractions on swallowing. logy of symptomatic 'curling' or so-called 'diffuse spasm'. Unfortunately sphincteric opening could not be Second WorldCongress ofGastroenterology, Munich, I, 57. Kramer,P.,Fleshler,B.,McNally,E.,and Harris, L.D. Oesophageal evaluated because ofthe previous forceful dilatation sensitivity to Mecholyl in symptomaticdiffusespasm. Gut,8, in 1963. Thus symptoms, the radiographic, balloon- 120-127 Kramer, P., and Ingelfinger, F. J. (1951). Esophageal sensitivity to kymographic, and manometric evidence strongly Mecholyl in cardiospasm. Gastroenterology, 19, 242-251. support the present diagnosis ofcardiospasm. Hightower, N. C. Jr., Olsen, A. M., and Moersch, H. J. (1954). A comparisonoftheeffectsofacetyl-beta-methylcholine chloride (Mecholyl) or esophageal intraluminal pressure in normal SUMMARY persons and patients with cardiospasm. Gastroenterology, 26, 592-600. Kramer, P., and Ingelfinger, F. J. (1949). I. Motility ofthe human Apatient ispresentedwhose symptoms,oesophageal esophagus incontrol subjects and inpatients withesophagea radiographs, balloon-kymographic, and manometric disorders. Amer.J.Med.,7, 168-173. Fleshler,B.,Hendrix,T.R.,Kramer,P.,andIngelfinger,F.J.(1958). studies in 1956 were diagnostic ofdiffuse spasm. In Resistanceandreflexfunctionoftheloweresophagealsphincte graphs, balloon-kymographic, and manometric Barrett, N. R. (1964). Achalasia of the cardia: reflections upon a clinicalstudyofover 100cases.Brit.med.J.,1, 1135-1140.
