Venous thromboembolism in adults
KEYWORDS: people, vte, information, treatment, aged, people aged, statement, quality, data, healthcare, anticoagulation, professionals, risk, review, prophylaxis


provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of arrangements to ensure that people aged 16 and over who are in hospital and assessed as needing pharmacological VTE prophylaxis start it as soon as possible and within 14 hours of hospital admission. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example from service protocols and prescribing systems. Process Proportion of people aged 16 and over who are in hospital and assessed as needing pharmacological VTE prophylaxis who start it within 14 hours of hospital admission. Numerator – the number in the denominator who start pharmacological VTE prophylaxis within 14 hours of hospital admission. Denominator – the number of people aged 16 and over who are in hospital and assessed as needing pharmacological VTE prophylaxis. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example from patient records. Outcome Rates of hospital-acquired thrombosis (HAT). Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example from patient records. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (secondary care services) ensure that written clinical protocols are in place so that people aged 16 and over who are in hospital and assessed as needing pharmacological VTE prophylaxis start it as soon as possible and within 14 hours of hospital admission. They also have clinical protocols on considering an adjusted dose of low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) for people who are at extremes of body weight or have impaired renal function. They ensure that they have healthcare professionals available to carry out the assessment and prescribing systems designed to start VTE prophylaxis within this timeframe. Healthcare professionals (such as pharmacists, advanced nurse practitioners and doctors) prescribe pharmacological VTE prophylaxis to people aged 16 and over who are in hospital and assessed as needing pharmacological VTE prophylaxis. They discuss the medicine with the person and involve them in making decisions about it, and give them verbal and written information on the importance of using pharmacological VTE prophylaxis correctly and possible side effects. They make sure that the person starts treatment as soon as possible and within 14 hours of hospital admission. For people at extremes of body weight or with impaired renal function,
