Venous thromboembolism in adults
KEYWORDS: people, vte, information, treatment, aged, people aged, statement, quality, data, healthcare, anticoagulation, professionals, risk, review, prophylaxis


make sure that the person starts treatment as soon as possible and within 14 hours of hospital admission. For people at extremes of body weight or with impaired renal function, they consider adjusting the dose of LMWH in line with the summary of product characteristics and locally agreed protocols. Commissioners ensure that services have written clinical protocols in place for people in hospital who are assessed as needing pharmacological VTE prophylaxis to start it as soon as possible and within 14 hours of hospital admission. They also ensure they have clinical protocols on considering an adjusted dose of LMWH for people who are at extremes of body weight or have impaired renal function. They ensure that services have healthcare professionals available to carry out the assessment and prescribing systems designed to start VTE prophylaxis within this timeframe. Peopleaged 16 and over who are in hospital and who need medicine to prevent blood clots start taking the medicine within 14 hours of being admitted to hospital. People who have a very low or high body weight or whose kidney function is impaired have the dose of medicine they are given adjusted. They discuss the medicine with a healthcare professional and make decisions about taking it. Their healthcare professional explains and gives them written information about how to use the medicine and any possible side effects. Source guidance Venous thromboembolism in over 16s: reducing the risk of hospital-acquired deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism. NICE guideline NG89 (2018, updated 2019), recommendations 1.1.4 and 1.1.7 Definition of terms used in this quality statement People aged 16 and over who are in hospital This includes medical, surgical and trauma patients. NICE's guideline on venous thromboembolism in over 16s, sections 1.4 to 1.15, should be referred to for population- specific recommendations on different timings and types of pharmacological VTE prophylaxis. [NICE's guideline on venous thromboembolism in over 16s, recommendations 1.1.4, 1.1.6 and 1.1.7] Hospital admission Admission as an inpatient, where a bed is provided for 1 or more nights, or admission as a day patient, where a bed is provided for a procedure including surgery or chemotherapy but not for an overnight stay. [NICE's guideline on venous thromboembolism in over 16s, terms used in this guideline] Equality and diversity considerations The supporting information for this statement highlights that people should be given verbal and written information on using VTE prophylaxis correctly and the possible side
