Venous thromboembolism in adults
KEYWORDS: people, vte, information, treatment, aged, people aged, statement, quality, data, healthcare, anticoagulation, professionals, risk, review, prophylaxis


guideline] Equality and diversity considerations The supporting information for this statement highlights that people should be given verbal and written information on using VTE prophylaxis correctly and the possible side effects. Information should be in a format that suits their needs and preferences. It should be accessible to people who do not speak or read English, and it should be culturally appropriate and age appropriate. For people with additional needs related to a disability, impairment or sensory loss, information should also be provided as set out in NHS England's Accessible Information Standard or the equivalent standards for the devolved nations. Heparins are a type of pharmacological prophylaxis used to prevent VTE. They are of animal origin and this may be of concern to some people because of religious or ethical beliefs. The suitability, advantages and disadvantages of alternatives to heparin should be discussed with the person. Quality statement 2: Venous thromboembolism risk assessment for people with lower limb immobilisation Quality statement People aged 16 and over who are discharged with lower limb immobilisation are assessed to identify their risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE). [new 2021] Rationale A significant number of people are discharged after hospital treatment for trauma or orthopaedic surgery with temporary lower limb immobilisation. These people may have an increased risk of VTE, but may not have their VTE risk assessed if they are treated in the emergency department or as outpatients. Ensuring that they have a risk assessment will enable them to have VTE prophylaxis if needed and reduce their risk of VTE and mortality. It is also an opportunity to explain the risks of VTE from immobilisation to them. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of written clinical protocols to ensure that people aged 16 and over who are discharged with lower limb immobilisation are assessed to identify their risk of VTE. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example from service protocols. Process Proportion of people aged 16 and over who are discharged with lower limb immobilisation who are assessed to identify their risk of VTE. Numerator – the number in the denominator who are assessed to identify their risk of
