Venous thromboembolism in adults
KEYWORDS: people, vte, information, treatment, aged, people aged, statement, quality, data, healthcare, anticoagulation, professionals, risk, review, prophylaxis


are discharged with lower limb immobilisation who are assessed to identify their risk of VTE. Numerator – the number in the denominator who are assessed to identify their risk of VTE. Denominator – the number of people aged 16 and over who are discharged with lower limb immobilisation. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example from patient records. Outcome Rates of thrombosis. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example from patient records. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (secondary care services, such as orthopaedic departments, fracture clinics and emergency departments) ensure that written clinical protocols are in place so that people aged 16 and over who are discharged with lower limb immobilisation are assessed to identify their risk of VTE and to decide whether they need pharmacological VTE prophylaxis. They also have protocols on giving verbal and written information to people and their family members or carers about the signs and symptoms of VTE, how to reduce their risk of VTE and how to seek help if VTE is suspected, as well as the benefits and possible side effects of pharmacological VTE prophylaxis. Healthcare professionals (such as doctors, allied health professionals, trauma teams and orthopaedic specialists) carry out a risk assessment for people aged 16 and over who are discharged with lower limb immobilisation to identify their risk of VTE and decide whether they need pharmacological VTE prophylaxis. They discuss the outcome of the assessment with the person and involve them in making decisions about pharmacological VTE prophylaxis if it is needed. They also give verbal and written information to people and their family members or carers about the signs and symptoms of VTE, how to reduce their risk of VTE and how to seek help if VTE is suspected, as well as the benefits and possible side effects of pharmacological VTE prophylaxis. Commissioners ensure that services have written clinical protocols in place so that people aged 16 and over who are discharged with lower limb immobilisation are assessed to identify their risk of VTE and to decide whether they need pharmacological VTE prophylaxis. They also ensure they have protocols on giving verbal and written information to people and their family members or carers about the signs and symptoms of VTE, how to reduce
