Venous thromboembolism in adults
KEYWORDS: people, vte, information, treatment, aged, people aged, statement, quality, data, healthcare, anticoagulation, professionals, risk, review, prophylaxis


needs related to a disability, impairment or sensory loss, information should also be provided as set out in NHS England's Accessible Information Standard or the equivalent standards for the devolved nations. Quality statement 3: Proximal leg vein ultrasound scan for a 'likely' deep vein thrombosis Wells score Quality statement People aged 18 and over with a deep vein thrombosis (DVT) Wells score of 2 points or more have a proximal leg vein ultrasound scan within 4 hours of it being requested. [2013, updated 2021] Rationale People aged 18 and over with a suspected DVT need to have a proximal leg vein ultrasound scan quickly to diagnose or rule out a DVT so that treatment can be started promptly if needed. The scan should be done within 4 hours of the request to avoid unnecessary interim anticoagulation treatment. This excludes long-term anticoagulation for secondary prevention or short-term anticoagulation when used for primary VTE prevention in people with COVID-19. If DVT is ruled out, alternative diagnoses can be investigated promptly. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of the availability of staff to perform proximal leg vein ultrasound scans for people aged 18 and over with a DVT Wells score of 2 points or more within 4 hours of it being requested. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example from staff rotas. Process Proportion of people aged 18 and over with a DVT Wells score of 2 points or more who have a proximal leg vein ultrasound scan within 4 hours of it being requested. Numerator – the number in the denominator who have a proximal leg vein ultrasound scan within 4 hours of it being requested. Denominator – the number of people aged 18 and over with a DVT Wells score of 2 points or more. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example from patient records. Outcome Prescribing rates of interim therapeutic anticoagulation to prevent DVT. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example from prescribing systems. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service
