Venous thromboembolism in adults
KEYWORDS: people, vte, information, treatment, aged, people aged, statement, quality, data, healthcare, anticoagulation, professionals, risk, review, prophylaxis


Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example from prescribing systems. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (such as secondary care services) ensure that ultrasound scanning equipment and staff are available to perform proximal leg vein ultrasound scans for people aged 18 and over with a DVT Wells score of 2 points or more within 4 hours of the scan being requested. They ensure that written clinical protocols are in place so that, if it is not possible to have the scan result within 4 hours, people are offered a D-dimer test, then interim therapeutic anticoagulation until the scan results are obtained (within 24 hours) and treatment is reviewed. Healthcare professionals (such as GPs, specialists and nurses) are aware of referral pathways for proximal leg vein ultrasound scans, and refer people aged 18 and over with a DVT Wells score of 2 points or more to have this imaging. If it is not possible to obtain the scan result within 4 hours, they offer a D-dimer test, then interim therapeutic anticoagulation and an ultrasound scan within 24 hours. Commissioners ensure that services have referral pathways and written clinical protocols in place so that people aged 18 and over with a DVT Wells score of 2 points or more can have a proximal leg vein ultrasound scan within 4 hours of it being requested, or within 24 hours if this is not possible. They also ensure that services have the equipment and capacity to perform this imaging within this timeframe. People aged 18 and over who have signs and symptoms of a deep vein thrombosis (blood clot) and are referred for an ultrasound scan have the scan within 4 hours of the referral being made. If this is not possible, they are given the scan within 24 hours, and offered a blood test to measure a protein called D-dimer, which can indicate whether there is a blood clot, and an anticoagulant (medicine to treat blood clots) to take while waiting for the scan. Source guidance Venous thromboembolic diseases: diagnosis, management and thrombophilia testing. NICE guideline NG158 (2020, updated 2023), recommendations 1.1.3 and 1.1.4 Definition of terms used in this quality statement DVT Wells score of 2 points or more A 'likely' DVT Wells score, which is a score that predicts the probability of DVT for people with
