Venous thromboembolism in adults
KEYWORDS: people, vte, information, treatment, aged, people aged, statement, quality, data, healthcare, anticoagulation, professionals, risk, review, prophylaxis


in this quality statement DVT Wells score of 2 points or more A 'likely' DVT Wells score, which is a score that predicts the probability of DVT for people with suspected DVT, estimated using the following Wells clinical prediction rule. Two-level DVT Wells score Clinical feature Points Active cancer (treatment ongoing, within 6 months, or palliative) 1 Paralysis, paresis or recent plaster immobilisation of the lower extremities 1 Recently bedridden for 3 days or more, or major surgery within 12 weeks 1 requiring general or regional anaesthesia Clinical feature Points Localised tenderness along the distribution of the deep venous system 1 Entire leg swollen 1 Calf swelling at least 3 cm larger than asymptomatic side 1 Pitting oedema confined to the symptomatic leg 1 Collateral superficial veins (non-varicose) 1 Previously documented DVT 1 An alternative diagnosis is at least as likely as DVT -2 Clinical probability simplified score: • DVT likely: 2 points or more • DVT unlikely: 1 point or less. [NICE's guideline on venous thromboembolic diseases, recommendation 1.1.2] Equality and diversity considerations NICE's guideline on venous thromboembolic diseases covers people aged 18 and over because the evidence for the recommendations focused on this age group. This statement applies to people aged 18 and over, but clinical judgement should be used when treating people aged between 16 and 18 for suspected DVT. Heparins are a type of anticoagulant used to prevent VTE. They are of animal origin and this may be of concern to some people because of religious or ethical beliefs. The suitability, advantages and disadvantages of alternatives to heparin should be discussed with the person. Quality statement 4: Venous thromboembolism anticoagulation review Quality statement People aged 18 and over taking anticoagulation treatment after a venous thromboembolism (VTE) have a review at 3 months and then at least once a year if they continue to take it long term. [2013, updated 2021] Rationale The benefits of anticoagulation treatment for VTE prevention become less certain over time, and after 3 months treatment needs to be reviewed and a decision made about whether to continue or stop treatment. Reviewing long-term anticoagulation treatment for people who decide to continue it beyond 3 months ensures that treatment is guided by the person's changing balance of benefits and risks, and changes in their preferences over time. At a review, the information, advice and support provided to people when they started having anticoagulation treatment
