Venous thromboembolism in adults
KEYWORDS: people, vte, information, treatment, aged, people aged, statement, quality, data, healthcare, anticoagulation, professionals, risk, review, prophylaxis


changing balance of benefits and risks, and changes in their preferences over time. At a review, the information, advice and support provided to people when they started having anticoagulation treatment should be reviewed and updated. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure a) Evidence of local systems to identify and invite people aged 18 and over, taking anticoagulation treatment after a VTE for a review at 3 months. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example from service specifications. b) Evidence of local systems to identify and invite people aged 18 and over taking long- term anticoagulation treatment after a VTE for a review at least once a year. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example from service specifications. Process a) Proportion of people aged 18 and over taking anticoagulation treatment for 3 months after a VTE who have a review. Numerator – the number in the denominator who have a review at 3 months. Denominator – the number of people aged 18 and over taking anticoagulation treatment after a VTE. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example from patient records. b) Proportion of people aged 18 and over taking long-term anticoagulation treatment for secondary prevention of VTE who have a review at least once a year. Numerator – the number in the denominator who had a review in the previous year. Denominator – the number of people aged 18 and over taking long-term anticoagulation treatment for secondary prevention of VTE. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example from patient records. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (such as GP practices and secondary care services) ensure that local systems are in place to identify and invite people aged 18 and over taking anticoagulation treatment after a VTE for a review at 3 months and then at least once a year. They also ensure that staff have the time to carry out the reviews and that they review and update the information,
