Venous thromboembolism in adults
KEYWORDS: people, vte, information, treatment, aged, people aged, statement, quality, data, healthcare, anticoagulation, professionals, risk, review, prophylaxis


3 months and then at least once a year. They also ensure that staff have the time to carry out the reviews and that they review and update the information, advice and support given to people when they started having anticoagulation treatment. Healthcare professionals (such as GPs, specialists and nurses) carry out a review for people aged 18 and over taking anticoagulation treatment after a VTE after 3 months of treatment to discuss the benefits and risks of continuing, stopping or changing the anticoagulant. They give people information about when their anticoagulation will next be reviewed. They also carry out a review for people taking long-term anticoagulation treatment for secondary prevention of VTE at least once a year to review general health, risk of VTE recurrence, bleeding risk, adherence, side effects and treatment preferences. They make sure that they review and update the information, advice and support given to people when they started having anticoagulation treatment. Commissioners ensure that services have local systems in place to identify and invite for review people aged 18 and over taking anticoagulation treatment after a VTE at 3 months after starting treatment and adults taking long-term anticoagulation treatment for secondary prevention of VTE at least once a year. They also ensure that services have the capacity to carry out the reviews and to review and update the information, advice and support given to people when they started having anticoagulation treatment. People aged 18 and over who have had a blood clot and are taking an anticoagulant (medicine to prevent another blood clot) have a review at 3 months to discuss whether to continue or stop taking the anticoagulant, or change to a different anticoagulant. If they continue the anticoagulant, they have a review at least once a year. The information, advice and support they were given when they started having anticoagulation treatment is reviewed and updated, and they are also given information about when their treatment reviews will be scheduled. Source guidance Venous thromboembolic diseases: diagnosis, management and thrombophilia testing. NICE guideline NG158 (2020, updated 2023), recommendations 1.4.1 and 1.4.12 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Review at 3 months A review after 3 months of anticoagulation treatment to assess and discuss the benefits and risks of continuing, stopping or changing the anticoagulant with the person having treatment, and to review and update the information, advice and support given when they started
