Venous thromboembolism in adults
KEYWORDS: people, vte, information, treatment, aged, people aged, statement, quality, data, healthcare, anticoagulation, professionals, risk, review, prophylaxis


the benefits and risks of continuing, stopping or changing the anticoagulant with the person having treatment, and to review and update the information, advice and support given when they started having anticoagulation treatment. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on venous thromboembolic diseases, recommendation 1.4.1 and expert opinion]. Review at least once a year A review of general health, risk of VTE recurrence, bleeding risk and treatment preferences and to review and update the information, advice and support given when they started treatment for people taking long-term anticoagulation treatment. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on venous thromboembolic diseases, recommendation 1.4.12] Equality and diversity considerations NICE's guideline on venous thromboembolic diseases covers people aged 18 and over because the evidence for the recommendations focused on this age group. This statement applies to people aged 18 and over, but clinical judgement should be used when treating people aged under 18 taking anticoagulation treatment after a VTE. Information given to people should be in a format that suits their needs and preferences. The reviews should be accessible to people who do not speak or read English, and it should be culturally appropriate and age appropriate. For people with additional needs related to a disability, impairment or sensory loss, information should also be provided as set out in NHS England's Accessible Information Standard or the equivalent standards for the devolved nations. Heparins are a type of anticoagulant used to treat VTE. They are of animal origin and this may be of concern to some people because of religious or ethical beliefs. The suitability, advantages and disadvantages of alternatives to heparin should be discussed with the person. Quality statement 5: Follow-up for outpatients with low-risk pulmonary embolism Quality statement People aged 18 and over having outpatient treatment for suspected or confirmed low-risk pulmonary embolism (PE) have an agreed plan for monitoring and follow-up. [new 2021] Rationale Having clear arrangements for monitoring and follow-up for outpatients ensures that they receive the same quality of care from secondary care services as inpatients. Patients should have a written plan that makes them aware of signs to look out for and how and when to get help when needed. This will help to ensure that people having outpatient treatment for suspected or confirmed PE act in a timely manner before things worsen. Specialist services with expertise in thrombosis may not be available at all times, so it is important that the plan
