Venous thromboembolism in adults
KEYWORDS: people, vte, information, treatment, aged, people aged, statement, quality, data, healthcare, anticoagulation, professionals, risk, review, prophylaxis


confirmed PE act in a timely manner before things worsen. Specialist services with expertise in thrombosis may not be available at all times, so it is important that the plan also includes information about who they can contact if they need advice outside normal service hours. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure a) Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that people aged 18 and over having outpatient treatment for suspected or confirmed low-risk PE have an agreed plan for monitoring and follow-up. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example from service specifications or local protocols. b) Evidence that information is available for people aged 18 and over having outpatient treatment for suspected or confirmed low-risk PE on symptoms and signs to look out for, and contact information for healthcare professionals they can discuss concerns with. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example from information leaflets. Process Proportion of people aged 18 and over having outpatient treatment for suspected or confirmed low-risk PE who have an agreed plan for monitoring and follow-up. Numerator – the number in the denominator who have an agreed plan for monitoring and follow-up. Denominator – the number of people aged 18 and over having outpatient treatment for suspected or confirmed low-risk PE. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example from patient records. Outcome Rates of emergency admissions to hospital for people aged 18 and over having outpatient treatment for low-risk PE. Data source: Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example from patient records. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (such as secondary care services) ensure that healthcare professionals have the time and resources to discuss and agree a plan for monitoring and follow-up with people having outpatient treatment for suspected or confirmed low-risk PE. Healthcare professionals (such as specialists, specialist nurses and allied health professionals) discuss and agree a plan for monitoring and follow-up with people having outpatient treatment for suspected or confirmed low-risk PE. They provide
