Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


ABSTRACT Diabetic neuropathy (DN) is the most common form of neuropathy in developed countries and may affect about half of all patients with diabetes (DM), contributing to substantial morbidity and mortality and resulting in a huge economic burden. DN encompasses multiple different disorders involving proximal, distal, somatic, and autonomic nerves. It may be acute and self-limiting or a chronic, indolent condition. DN may progress insidiously or present with clinical symptoms and signs that may mimic those seen in many other diseases. The proper diagnosis therefore requires a thorough history, clinical and neurological examinations, and exclusion of secondary causes. Distal peripheral neuropathy (DPN) is the most common manifestation and is characteristically symmetric, glove and stocking distribution and a length-dependent sensorimotor polyneuropathy. It develops on a background of long-standing chronic hyperglycemia superimposed upon cardiovascular risk factors. Diagnosis is mainly based on a combination of symptoms and signs and occasionally neurophysiological tests are required. Apart from optimizing glycemic control and cardiovascular risk factor management, there is no approved treatment for the prevention or reversal of DPN. Even tight glycemic control at best limits the progression of DPN in patients with type 1 DM, but not to the same extent in type 2 DM. It has been estimated that between 3 and 25% of persons with DM might experience neuropathic pain. Painful DPN can be difficult to treat, and is associated with reduced quality of life, poor sleep, depression, and anxiety. Pharmacotherapy is the mainstay symptomatic treatment for painful DPN. The reported prevalence of diabetic autonomic neuropathy (DAN) varies widely (7.7 to 90%) depending on the cohort studied and the methods used for diagnosis, and can affect any organ system. Cardiovascular autonomic neuropathy (CAN) is significantly associated with overall mortality and with morbidity, including silent myocardial ischemia, coronary artery disease, stroke, DN progression, and perioperative complications. Cardiovascular reflex tests are the criterion standard in clinical autonomic testing. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Diabetic neuropathy (DN) is the most common and troublesome complication of diabetes mellitus, leading to the greatest morbidity and mortality resulting in a huge economic burden for diabetes care ( 1 , 2 ). It is the most common form of neuropathy in the developed world, accounting for more hospitalizations than all the other diabetes related complications combined. It is the primary risk factor for complications such as foot
