Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


form of neuropathy in the developed world, accounting for more hospitalizations than all the other diabetes related complications combined. It is the primary risk factor for complications such as foot ulceration, which is responsible for 50-75% of non-traumatic amputations ( 3 ). In the United Kingdom, the cost of managing diabetic foot disease is greater than the combined cost of three of the four most common cancers – breast, lung and prostate ( 4 , 5 ). DN is a set of clinical syndromes that affect distinct regions of the nervous system, singly or combined. It may be silent and go undetected while exercising its ravages; or it may present with clinical symptoms and signs that, although nonspecific and insidious with slow progression also mimics those seen in many other diseases. SCOPE OF THE PROBLEM Diabetic neuropathy results in a variety of syndromes and can be subdivided into focal/multifocal neuropathies, including diabetic amyotrophy, and symmetric polyneuropathies, including sensorimotor polyneuropathy (DPN). The latter is the most common type. The Toronto Diabetic Neuropathy Expert Group defined DPN as a symmetrical, length-dependent sensorimotor polyneuropathy attributable to metabolic and microvascular alterations as a result of chronic hyperglycemia exposure (diabetes) and cardiovascular risk covariates ( 6 ). Its onset is generally insidious, and without treatment the course is chronic and progressive. The loss of small fiber-mediated sensation results in the loss of thermal and pain perception, whereas large fiber impairment results in loss of touch and vibration perception. Sensory fiber involvement may also result in “positive” symptoms, such as paresthesias and pain, although up to 50% of neuropathic patients are asymptomatic. DPN can be associated with the involvement of the autonomic nervous system, i.e., diabetic autonomic neuropathy ( 7 , 8 ) and in its cardiovascular form is associated with at least a three-fold increased risk for mortality ( 9 , 10 ). Cardiac autonomic dysfunction in patients with diabetes is strongly associated with major cardiovascular events and mortality ( 11 ). Painful DPN which occurs in up to 34% of patients with diabetes is defined as ‘pain as a direct consequence of abnormalities in the peripheral somatosensory system in people with diabetes’ ( 12 ). Persistent neuropathic pain interferes significantly with quality of life (QOL), impairing sleep and recreation; it also significantly impacts emotional well-being, and is associated with – if not the cause of – depression, anxiety, loss of sleep, and noncompliance with
