Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


(QOL), impairing sleep and recreation; it also significantly impacts emotional well-being, and is associated with – if not the cause of – depression, anxiety, loss of sleep, and noncompliance with treatment ( 13 ). Painful DPN can pose a significant clinical management challenge and if poorly managed can lead to mood and sleep disturbances. Hence, recognition of psychosocial problems that co-exist with neuropathic pain is critical to the management of painful DPN. For many patients, optimal management of chronic pain may require a multidisciplinary team approach with appropriate behavioral therapy, as well as input from a broad range of healthcare professionals ( 14 ). CLASSIFICATION OF DIABETIC NEUROPATHIES Figure 1 and Table 1 describe the classification first proposed by PK Thomas ( 15 ) and modified in a recent Position Statement by the American Diabetes Association ( 16 ). Figure 1. Classification of diabetic neuropathy Table 1. Classification of Diabetic Neuropathies View in own window A. Diffuse neuropathy Distal Symmetrical Peripheral Neuropathy Primarily small-fiber neuropathy Primarily large-fiber neuropathy Mixed small- and large-fiber neuropathy (most common) Autonomic Cardiovascular Reduced Heart Rate Variability Resting tachycardia Orthostatic hypotension Sudden death (malignant arrhythmia) Gastrointestinal Diabetic gastroparesis (gastropathy) Diabetic enteropathy (diarrhea) Colonic hypomotility (constipation) Urogenital Diabetic cystopathy (neurogenic bladder) Erectile dysfunction Female sexual dysfunction Sudomotor dysfunction Distal hypohydrosis/anhidrosis, Gustatory sweating Hypoglycemia unawareness Abnormal pupillary function B. Mononeuropathy (mononeuritis multiplex) (atypical forms) Isolated cranial or peripheral nerve (e.g., Cranial Nerve III, ulnar, median, femoral, peroneal) Mononeuritis multiplex (if confluent may resemble polyneuropathy) C. Radiculopathy or polyradiculopathy (atypical forms) Radiculoplexus neuropathy (a.k.a. lumbosacral polyradiculopathy, proximal motor amyotrophy) Thoracic radiculopathy D. Nondiabetic neuropathies common in diabetes Pressure palsies Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy Radiculoplexus neuropathy Acute painful small-fiber neuropathies (treatment-induced) NATURAL HISTORY OF DIABETIC NEUROPATHIES (DN) The natural history of DPN remains poorly understood, as there are few prospective studies that have examined this. The main reason for this is the lack of standardized methodologies for the diagnosis of DPN. Unlike diabetic retinopathy and nephropathy, the lack of simple, accurate and readily reproducible methods of measuring neuropathy is a major challenge. Furthermore, the methods currently used are not only subjective and reliant on the examiner’s interpretation but tend to diagnose DPN when it’s already well established. Nevertheless, it appears that the most rapid deterioration of nerve function occurs soon after the onset of type 1 diabetes; then within 2-3 years there is a slowing of the progress with a
