Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


that the most rapid deterioration of nerve function occurs soon after the onset of type 1 diabetes; then within 2-3 years there is a slowing of the progress with a shallower slope to the curve of dysfunction ( 17 ). In contrast, in type 2 diabetes, slowing of nerve conduction velocities (NCVs) may be one of the earliest neuropathic abnormalities and often is present even at diagnosis. In fact, there is accumulating evidence that indicates that the risk of DPN is increased even in patients with prediabetes. In a large population study conducted in Augsburg, Southern Germany, the prevalence of DPN was 28% in subjects with known diabetes, 13% in impaired glucose tolerance (IGT), 11% among those with impaired fasting glucose and 7% in those with normal glucose tolerance ( 18 ). After diagnosis, slowing of NCV generally progresses at a steady rate of approximately 1 m/sec/year, and the level of impairment is positively correlated with duration of diabetes. Moreover, nerve conduction velocities remained stable with intensive therapy but decreased significantly with conventional therapy ( 19 , 20 ). In a long term follow up study of type 2 diabetes patients ( 9 ), electrophysiologic abnormalities in the lower limb increased from 8% at baseline to 42% after 10 years; in particular, a decrease in sensory and motor amplitudes (indicating axonal destruction) was more pronounced than the slowing of the NCVs. However, there now appears to be a decline in this rate of evolution. It appears that host factors pertaining to general health, management of risk factors and nerve nutrition are changing/improving. This is particularly important when doing studies on the treatment of DPN, which have always relied on differences between drug treatment and placebo, and have apparently been successful because of the decline in function occurring in placebo-treated patients ( 21 ). Recent studies have pointed out the changing natural history of DPN with the advent of therapeutic lifestyle change and the use of statins and ACE inhibitors, which have slowed the progression of DPN and drastically changed the requirements for placebo-controlled studies ( 22 , 23 ). It is also important to recognize that DPN is a disorder wherein the prevailing abnormality is loss of axons that electrophysiologically translates to a reduction in amplitudes and not conduction velocities; therefore, changes in NCV may not be an appropriate means of monitoring progress or deterioration of nerve function. Moreover, small,
