Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


translates to a reduction in amplitudes and not conduction velocities; therefore, changes in NCV may not be an appropriate means of monitoring progress or deterioration of nerve function. Moreover, small, unmyelinated nerve fibers are affected early in DM and are not assessed in NCV studies. Other methods such as quantitative sensory testing, autonomic function testing, skin biopsy with quantification of intraepidermal nerve fibers (IENF), or corneal confocal microscopy are necessary to identify these patients. These techniques will be discussed in greater depth later in this chapter. Although, the true prevalence is unknown and reports vary, it is estimated to be 30% with a range between 6-54% of patients with diabetes ( 24 ). It largely depends on the criteria and sensitivity of the diagnostic tests used to define neuropathy, the population (e.g., hospital/community or urban/rural), or the country surveyed and even the etiology of diabetes ( 24 , 25 ). Eleven to 13% of patients reported DN using a questionnaire based survey ( 26 , 27 ); 42-54% were found to have neuropathy when more sensitive measures such as nerve conduction studies were used ( 28 , 29 ). Neurologic complications occur equally in type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus and additionally in various forms of acquired diabetes ( 30 ). The major morbidity associated with somatic neuropathy is foot ulceration, the precursor of gangrene and limb loss. Neuropathy increases the risk of amputation 1.7 fold; 12 fold if there is deformity (itself a consequence of neuropathy), and 36 fold if there is a history of previous ulceration ( 31 ). For more than a decade now, it has been recognized that a limb is lost to diabetes every 30 seconds worldwide ( 32 ). According to the International Diabetes Federation (IDF), lower-limb amputations are ten times more common in people with diabetes than in people without diabetes ( 32 , 33 ). Each week in England there is about 169 amputations in people with diabetes and almost all of these individuals have DN ( 34 ). Amputation is not only devastating in its impact on the individual and their family, but also leads to loss of independence and livelihood. In low-income countries, the ﬁnancial costs can be equivalent to 5.7 years of annual income, potentially resulting in ﬁnancial ruin for individuals and their families ( 35 ). DN also places a substantial ﬁnancial burden on health-care systems and
