Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


to 5.7 years of annual income, potentially resulting in ﬁnancial ruin for individuals and their families ( 35 ). DN also places a substantial ﬁnancial burden on health-care systems and society in general. MODIFIABLE RISK FACTORS FOR DPN INCIDENCE AND PROGRESSION In both type 1 and 2 diabetes, chronic hyperglycemia has a key role in the pathogenesis of DPN ( 36 ). The benefit of glucose lowering is, however, more pronounced in type 1 diabetes (78% relative risk reduction) ( 37 ) compared to type 2 (5-9% relative risk reduction) ( 38 ). In fact, the benefit of intensive glucose lowering is greatest in younger patients at early stages of the disease. This treatment effects becomes weaker once nerve damage is established. The relationship between glycemic control and DPN in type 2 diabetes is less clear cut. Even when trials have shown that tighter glucose control might have a modest beneficial effect in preventing progression of DPN in type 2 diabetes, such as the Action to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes (ACCORD) study ( 39 ), confusion has arisen when it was reported that a self-reported history of DPN at baseline was associated with an increased risk of mortality with intensive glycemic treatment ( 40 ). This highlights the differences between the pathogenesis of DPN in type 1 and 2 diabetes and emphasizes the point that many people with type 2 diabetes develop DPN despite adequate glucose control. The presence of other risk factors, weight gain and multiple comorbidities may have significant roles to play. Although hyperglycemia and duration of diabetes play an important role in DPN, other risk factors have been identified. The EURODIAB Prospective Complications study in type 1 diabetes demonstrated that the incidence of DPN is associated with other potentially modifiable cardiovascular risk factors, including hypertriglyceridemia, hypertension, obesity and smoking ( 41 ). More recently, data from the ADDITION study also implicated similar cardiovascular risk factors in the pathogenesis of DPN in type 2 diabetes ( 26 ). PATHOGENESIS OF DIABETIC NEUROPATHIES Despite considerable research, the pathogenesis of diabetic neuropathy remains undetermined ( 42 ). This is one reason why, despite several clinical trials, there has been relatively little progress in the development of disease-modifying treatments ( 43 ). Historically, a number of causative factors have been identified including persistent hyperglycemia, microvascular insufficiency, oxidative and nitrosative stress, defective neurotrophism, and autoimmune-mediated nerve destruction. Figure 2 summarizes our
