Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


43 ). Historically, a number of causative factors have been identified including persistent hyperglycemia, microvascular insufficiency, oxidative and nitrosative stress, defective neurotrophism, and autoimmune-mediated nerve destruction. Figure 2 summarizes our current view of the pathogenesis of DPN ( 44 ). Detailed discussion of the different theories is beyond the scope of this Chapter and there are several excellent recent reviews ( 45 ). Figure 2. Pathogenesis of diabetic neuropathies. Ab, antibody; AGE, advance glycation end products; C’, complement; DAG, diacylglycerol; ET, endothelin; EDHF, endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor; GF, growth factor; IGF; insulin-like growth factor; NFkB, nuclear factor kB; NGF, nerve growth factor; NO, nitric oxide; NT3, neurotropin 3; PKC, protein kinase C; PGI2, prostaglandin I2; ROS, reactive oxygen species; TRK, tyrosine kinase. CLINICAL PRESENTATION The spectrum of clinical neuropathic syndromes described in patients with diabetes mellitus includes dysfunction of almost every segment of the somatic peripheral and autonomic nervous system ( 16 ). Each syndrome can be distinguished by its pathophysiologic, therapeutic, and prognostic features. Focal and Multifocal Neuropathies Focal neuropathies comprise focal limb neuropathies and cranial neuropathies. Focal limb neuropathies are usually due to entrapment, and mononeuropathies must be distinguished from these entrapment syndromes ( Table 2 ) ( 46 ). Mononeuropathies often occur in the older population; they have an acute onset, are associated with pain, and have a self-limiting course resolving in 6–8 weeks. Mononeuropathies can involve the median (5.8% of all diabetic neuropathies), ulnar (2.1%), radial (0.6%), and common peroneal nerves ( 47 ). Cranial neuropathies in patients with diabetes are extremely rare (0.05%) and occur in older individuals with a long duration of diabetes ( 48 ). The commonest cranial neuropathy is the third nerve palsy and patients present with acute onset unilateral pain in the orbit or sometimes with a frontal headache. There is typically ptosis and ophthalmoplegia, although the pupillary response to light is usually spared. Recovery occurs usually over three months ( 48 ). The clinical onset and time-scale for recovery, and the focal nature of the lesions on the third cranial nerve, on post-mortem studies suggested an ischemic etiology. It is important to exclude any other cause of third cranial nerve palsy (aneurysm or tumor) by CT or MR scanning, where the diagnosis is in doubt. Fourth, sixth and seventh cranial nerve palsies have also been described in patients with diabetes, but the association with diabetes is not as strong as that
