Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


diagnosis is in doubt. Fourth, sixth and seventh cranial nerve palsies have also been described in patients with diabetes, but the association with diabetes is not as strong as that with third cranial nerve palsy. Table 2. Distinguishing Characteristics of Mononeuropathies, Entrapment Syndromes and Distal Symmetrical Polyneuropathy View in own window Feature Mononeuropathy Entrapment syndrome Neuropathy Onset Sudden Gradual Gradual Pattern Single nerve but may be multiple Single nerve exposed to trauma Distal symmetrical poly neuropathy Nerves involved CN III, VI, VII, ulnar, median, peroneal Median, ulnar, peroneal, medial and lateral plantar Mixed, Motor, Sensory, Autonomic Natural history Resolves spontaneously Progressive Progressive Treatment Symptomatic Rest, splints, local steroids, diuretics, surgery Tight Glycemic control, Pregabalin, Duloxetine, Antioxidants, “Nutrinerve”, Research Drugs. Distribution of Sensory loss Area supplied by the nerve Area supplied beyond the site of entrapment Distal and symmetrical. “Glove and Stocking” distribution. CN, cranial nerves; NSAIDs, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs Entrapment Syndromes These start slowly and will progress and persist without intervention. A number of nerves including the median, ulnar, radial, lateral femoral cutaneous, fibular, and plantar nerves are vulnerable to pressure damage in diabetes. The etiology is multifactorial involving metabolic and ischemic factors, impaired reinnervation, and even obesity. Carpal tunnel syndrome occurs three times as frequently in people with diabetes compared with healthy populations ( 49 ) and is found in up to one third of patients with diabetes. Its increased prevalence in diabetes may be related to repeated undetected trauma, metabolic changes, or accumulation of fluid or edema within the confined space of the carpal tunnel. The diagnosis is confirmed by electrophysiological studies. Treatment consists of rest, aided by placement of a wrist splint in a neutral position to avoid repetitive trauma. Anti-inflammatory medications and steroid injections are sometimes useful. Surgery should be considered if weakness appears and medical treatment fails ( 50 ). It consists of sectioning the volar carpal ligament or unentrapping the nerves in the ulnar canal or the peroneal nerve at the head of the fibula and release of the medial plantar nerve in the tarsal tunnel amongst others. A more detailed review of other peripheral nerves vulnerable to entrapment in anatomically constraint channels are discussed elsewhere ( 51 ). Proximal Motor Neuropathy (Diabetic Amyotrophy) and Chronic Demyelinating Neuropathies For many years proximal neuropathy has been considered a component of DN. Its pathogenesis was ill understood ( 52 ), and its treatment was neglected with
