Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


and Chronic Demyelinating Neuropathies For many years proximal neuropathy has been considered a component of DN. Its pathogenesis was ill understood ( 52 ), and its treatment was neglected with the anticipation that the patient would eventually recover, albeit over a period of some 1-2 years and after suffering considerable pain, weakness and disability. The condition has a number of synonyms including diabetic amyotrophy and femoral neuropathy. It can be clinically identified based on the occurrence of these common features: 1) primarily affects those aged 50 to 60 years old with type 2 diabetes; 2) onset can be gradual or abrupt; 3) presents with severe pain in the thighs, hips and buttocks, followed by significant weakness of the proximal muscles of the lower limbs with inability to rise from the sitting position (positive Gower's maneuver); 4) can start unilaterally and then spread bilaterally; 5) often coexists with distal symmetric polyneuropathy; and 6) is characterized by muscle fasciculation, either spontaneous or provoked by percussion. Pathogenesis is not yet clearly understood although immune-mediated epineural microvasculitis has been demonstrated in some cases. Despite limited evidence of efficacy some immunosuppressive therapy is recommended using high dose steroids or intravenous immunoglobulin ( 53 ). Close monitoring and appropriate management of blood glucose is advised if high dose steorids are used ( 54 ). The condition can occur secondary to a variety of causes unrelated to diabetes, but which have a greater frequency in patients with diabetes than the general population. Hence, it is important to exclude other causes such as chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP), monoclonal gammopathy, circulating GM1 antibodies, and inflammatory vasculitis ( 55 , 56 ). In the classic form of diabetic amyotrophy, axonal loss is the predominant process ( 57 ). Electrophysiologic evaluation reveals lumbosacral plexopathy ( 58 ). In contrast, if demyelination predominates and the motor deficit affects proximal and distal muscle groups, the diagnoses of CIDP, monoclonal gammopathy of unknown significance, and vasculitis should be considered ( 59 , 60 ). The diagnosis of these demyelinating conditions is often overlooked although recognition is very important because unlike DN, they are sometimes treatable. Furthermore, they occur 11 times more frequently in patients with diabetes than nondiabetic patients ( 61 , 62 ). Biopsy of the obturator nerve have revealed deposition of immunoglobulin, demyelination and inflammatory cell infiltrate of the vasa nervorum ( 63 ). Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) protein content is high
