Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


). Biopsy of the obturator nerve have revealed deposition of immunoglobulin, demyelination and inflammatory cell infiltrate of the vasa nervorum ( 63 ). Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) protein content is high and lymphocyte count increased. Treatment options include: intravenous immunoglobulin for CIDP ( 64 ), plasma exchange for MGUS, steroids and azathioprine for vasculitis, and withdrawal of drugs or other agents that may have caused vasculitis. It is important to divide proximal syndromes into these two subcategories, because the CIDP variant responds dramatically to intervention ( 65 ), whereas amyotrophy runs its own course over months to years. Until more evidence is available, they should be considered separate syndromes. Diabetic Truncal Radiculoneuropathy Diabetic truncal radiculoneuropathy affects middle-aged to elderly patients and has a predilection for male sex ( 16 ). Acute onset of pain is the most important symptom and it occurs in a girdle-like distribution over the lower thoracic or abdominal wall. It can be uni- or bilaterally distributed. Motor weakness is rare but there may be local bulging of the muscle. Patchy sensory loss may be present and other causes of nerve root compression should be excluded. Resolution generally occurs within 4-6 months ( 16 ). Rapidly Reversible Hyperglycemic Neuropathy Reversible abnormalities of nerve function may occur in patients with recently diagnosed or poorly controlled diabetes. These are unlikely to be caused by structural abnormalities, as recovery soon follows restoration of euglycemia. Rapidly reversible hyperglycemic neuropathy usually presents with distal sensory symptoms, and whether these abnormalities result in an increased risk of developing chronic neuropathies in the future remains unknow ( 8 ). Generalized Symmetric Polyneuropathy ACUTE SENSORY NEUROPATHY Acute sensory (painful) neuropathy is considered by some authors a distinctive variant of distal symmetrical polyneuropathy ( 66 ). The syndrome is characterized by severe pain, cachexia, weight loss, depression and sexual dysfunction. It occurs predominantly in male patients and may appear at any time in the course of both type 1 and type 2 diabetes. It is self-limiting and invariably responds to simple symptomatic treatment ( 67 ). Conditions such as Fabry's disease, amyloidosis, HIV infection, heavy metal poisoning (such as arsenic), and excess alcohol consumption should be excluded. Autonomic nervous system involvement can also occur and can be very disabling. Patients report unremitting burning, deep pain and hyperesthesia especially in the feet. Other symptoms include sharp, stabbing, lancinating pain; “electric shock” like sensations in the lower limbs that
