Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


very disabling. Patients report unremitting burning, deep pain and hyperesthesia especially in the feet. Other symptoms include sharp, stabbing, lancinating pain; “electric shock” like sensations in the lower limbs that appear more frequently during the night; paresthesia; tingling; coldness, and numbness. Signs are usually absent with a relatively normal clinical examination, except for allodynia (exaggerated response to non-noxious stimuli) during sensory testing and, occasionally, absent or reduced ankle reflexes. There are no motor signs and little or no abnormality on nerve conduction studies. Acute sensory neuropathy is usually associated with poor glycemic control but may also appear after sudden improvement of glycemia. Most commonly associated with the onset of insulin therapy, being termed "insulin neuritis", it can also occur with oral hypoglycemic treatment. Patients present with severe neuropathic pain and/or autonomic symptoms with or without an acute worsening of retinopathy. Although the pathologic basis has not been determined, one hypothesis suggests that changes in blood glucose flux produce alterations in epineural blood flow, leading to ischemia; proinflammatory cytokines from activation of microglia have also been implicated ( 68 ). Hence, rapid glycemic changes in patients with uncontrolled diabetes increases the risk of this complication and should be avoided. A 2-3% (10-42mmol/mol) decrease in HbA 1c over 3 months is associated with a 20% absolute risk of developing this complication. The risk exceeds 80% with a decreased in HbA 1c of >4% (20mmol/mol) ( 69 ). A study using in vivo epineural vessel photography and fluorescein angiography demonstrated abnormalities of epineural vessels including arteriovenous shunting and proliferating new vessels in patients with acute sensory neuropathy ( 68 ). Other authors relate this syndrome to diabetic lumbosacral radiculoplexus neuropathy (DLRPN) and propose an immune mediated mechanism ( 70 ). The key in the management of this syndrome is achieving and maintaining blood glucose stability ( 71 ). Most patients also require medication for neuropathic pain. The natural history of this disease is resolution of symptoms within one year. CHRONIC SENSORIMOTOR NEUROPATHY OR DISTAL SYMMETRIC POLYNEUROPATY (DPN) The most common form of neuropathy in diabetes is a distal symmetrical polyneuropathy. It occurs in both type 1 and type 2 DM with similar frequency and may already be present at the time of diagnosis of type 2 DM ( 18 ). Sensory symptoms include numbness (‘dead feeling’), paraesthesia, and neuropathic pain (hyperalgesia, allodynia, deep aching, burning and sharp stabbing sensations). Patients do occasionally present
