Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


of type 2 DM ( 18 ). Sensory symptoms include numbness (‘dead feeling’), paraesthesia, and neuropathic pain (hyperalgesia, allodynia, deep aching, burning and sharp stabbing sensations). Patients do occasionally present paradoxically with a painful/painless leg i.e. painful neuropathic symptoms in the presence of severe sensory loss ( 72 ). Symptoms begin in the toes before progressing in a stocking and then a glove distribution as the disease progresses. Unsteadiness or sensory ataxia leading to increased falls risk occurs in advanced neuropathy loss of proprioception, foot deformity, and abnormal muscle sensory function ( 73 ). In the absence of painful symptoms, the onset of DPN is insidious whereby patients remain completely asymptomatic and signs discovered by a detailed neurological examination. Unfortunately, DPN is often already established or well advanced when identified by bedside clinical examination. It is critically important to annually (at least) examine the feet of patients with diabetes as loss of protective sensation is the strongest risk factor for diabetic foot ulceration. On physical examination, a symmetrical stocking like distribution of sensory abnormalities in both lower limbs is usually seen. In more severe cases, hands may be involved. All sensory modalities can be affected, particularly vibration, touch and position perceptions (large Aα/β fiber damage); and pain, with abnormal heat and cold temperature perception (small thinly myelinated Aδ and unmyelinated C fiber damage, see Figure 3 , 4 and 5 ; Table 3 ). Deep tendon reflexes may be absent or reduced, especially in the lower extremities, although this may occur with advancing age in the absence of neuropathy. When DPN is established, small muscle wasting of the foot and extensor halluces longus may be seen but severe weakness is rare and should raise the possibility of a non-diabetic etiology of the neuropathy. High arching of the foot, clawing of the toes with prominent metatarsal heads also become apparent – increasing the risk ulceration ( 74 ). A thorough assessment of patient’s footwear is essential. A poor fit, abnormal wear from internal pressure areas and foreign objects found in footwear are common causes of trauma leading to foot ulceration ( 75 ). Figure 3. Clinical presentation of small and large fiber neuropathies. Aα fibers are large myelinated fibers, in charge of motor functions and muscle control. Aα/β fibers are large myelinated fibers too, with sensory functions such as perception to touch, vibration, and position. Aδ fibers are small myelinated fibers,
