Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


with DPN, however, have a "mixed" variety of neuropathy with both large and small nerve fiber damages. DIAGNOSIS OF DIABETIC NEUROPATHIES Diabetic peripheral neuropathy can be diagnosed by the bedside with careful clinical examination of the feet and legs using simple tools within a few minutes. The basic neurological assessment comprises the general medical and neurological history, inspection of the feet, and neurological examination of sensation using simple semi-quantitative bed-side instruments such as the 10g Semmes-Weinstein monofilament, Neuropen ( 76 ) (to assess touch/pressure), NeuroQuick ( 77 ) or Tiptherm ( 78 ) (temperature), calibrated Rydel-Seiffer tuning fork (vibration), pin-prick (pain), and tendon reflexes (knee and ankle) ( Table 4 ). In addition, assessment of joint position and motor power should also be assessed. The Rydel Seiffer tuning fork is a 128 Hz tuning fork which allows quantifiable assessment of vibration perception in the feet of diabetic patients. When vibrating, two triangles appear on the graduated scale of 0–8 which join together as the amplitude decreases. The normal range for the graduated tuning fork on the dorsal distal joint of the great toe is ≥5/8 scale units in persons 21-40 years old, ≥4.5/8 in those 41-60 years old, ≥4/8 in individuals 61-71 years old, and ≥3.5/8 scale units in those 72-82 years old ( 79 ). In resource, limited settings the simple Ipswich Touch Test can be performed by lightly touching the tips of the first, third and fifth toes ( 80 ). It is recommended that a simple foot examination to detect loss of protective foot sensation, pedal pulses, and foot deformity is performed from the diagnosis of type 2 diabetes, 5-years after the diagnosis of type 1 diabetes and annually thereafter ( 81 , 82 , 16 ). This is performed in order to determine the risk of foot ulceration and prompt early referral for foot protection, regular podiatry or specialist input. Table 4. Examination - Bedside Sensory Tests View in own window Sensory Modality Nerve Fiber Instrument Associated Sensory Receptors Vibration Aβ (large) 128 Hz Tuning fork Ruffini corpuscle mechanoreceptors Pain (pinprick) C (small) Neuro-tips Nociceptors for pain and warmth Pressure Aβ, Aα (large) 1 g and 10 g Monofilament Pacinian corpuscle Light touch Aβ, Aα (large) Wisp of cotton Meissner’s corpuscle Cold Aδ (small) Cold tuning fork Cold thermoreceptors A consensus definition of DPN has been proposed by the Toronto Diabetic Neuropathy Expert Group, see below
