Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


Wisp of cotton Meissner’s corpuscle Cold Aδ (small) Cold tuning fork Cold thermoreceptors A consensus definition of DPN has been proposed by the Toronto Diabetic Neuropathy Expert Group, see below ( 6 ). In a clinical context, the diagnosis of ‘possible’ or ‘probable’ DPN is normally sufficient without the need for specialist investigations. For research purposes further tests are needed for a diagnosis of ‘confirmed’ DPN’, ‘Subclinical’ DPN or small fiber neuropathy. Toronto Classification of DPN ( 6 ) 1. Possible DSN : The presence of symptoms or signs of DPN may include the following: symptoms–decreased sensation, positive neuropathic sensory symptoms (e.g., “asleep numbness,” prickling or stabbing, burning or aching pain) predominantly in the toes, feet, or legs; or signs–symmetric decrease of distal sensation or unequivocally decreased or absent ankle reflexes. 2. Probable DPN : The presence of a combination of symptoms and signs of neuropathy including any 2 or more of the following: neuropathic symptoms, decreased distal sensation, or unequivocally decreased or absent ankle reflexes. 3. Confirmed DPN : The presence of an abnormality of nerve conduction and a symptom or symptoms, or a sign or signs, of neuropathy confirm DPN. If nerve conduction is normal, a validated measure of small fiber neuropathy (with class 1 evidence) may be used. To assess for the severity of DPN, several approaches can be recommended: for e.g., the graded approach outlined above; various continuous measures of sum scores of neurologic signs, symptoms or nerve test scores; scores of functions of activities of daily living; or scores of predetermined tasks or of disability. 4. Subclinical DPN : The presence of no signs or symptoms of neuropathy are confirmed with abnormal nerve conduction or a validated measure of small fiber neuropathy (with class 1 evidence). Definitions 1, 2, or 3 can be used for clinical practice and definitions 3 or 4 can be used for research studies. 5. Small fiber neuropathy (SFN) : SFN should be graded as follows: 1) possible: the presence of length-dependent symptoms and/or clinical signs of small fiber damage; 2) probable: the presence of length-dependent symptoms, clinical signs of small fiber damage, and normal sural nerve conduction; and 3) definite: the presence of length-dependent symptoms, clinical signs of small fiber damage, normal sural nerve conduction, and altered intraepidermal nerve fiber density (IENFD) at the ankle and/or abnormal thermal thresholds at the foot ( Figure 4 ). The following findings should
