Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


of the foot; and tarsal tunnel syndrome in which the pain and numbness radiate from beneath the medial malleolus to the sole and are localized to the inner side of the foot. These contrast with the pain of DPN which is bilateral, symmetrical, covering the whole foot and particularly the dorsum, and is worse at night interfering with sleep. Scored Clinical Assessment Tools for Diabetic Peripheral Neuropathy Scored Clinical assessments provide standardized, quantitative, and objective measures to assess for both the severity of symptoms and the degree of neuropathic deficits. These tools which have been subjected to strict validation studies, are sufficiently reproducible but require some minimal training. The most widely used instruments include: the Michigan Neuropathy Screening Instrument Questionnaire (MNSIQ, 15-item self-administered questionnaire), Michigan Neuropathy Screening Instrument (MNSI, MNSIQ plus a structured clinical examination), Michigan Diabetic Neuropathy Score (neurological assessment coupled with nerve conduction studies) ( 83 ), Toronto Clinical Neuropathy Score (TCNS, composite score of neuropathy symptoms sensory exam and reflexes) ( 84 ), modified TCNS (composite score of neuropathy symptoms and signs) ( 85 ), Neuropathy Disability Score (neuropathy signs, including reflexes) ( 86 ), Neurological Disability Score (neurological examination of cranial nerves, and upper and lower limbs) ( 87 ), the Neuropathy Symptom Score (assessment of sensory, motor and autonomic neuropathy symptoms) ( 87 ), and the Neuropathy impairment score (NIS) for neuropathic deficits (impairments) ( 87 ). A number of instruments have also been used to assess neuropathic pain and these include: the Neuropathy Total Symptom Score-6 (NTSS-6; measures frequency and intensity of neuropathic symptoms) ( 88 ), PainDETECT (patient administered 10-item questionnaire) ( 89 ), DN4 (Doleur Neuropathique en 4 Questions; 7 sensory descriptors and 3 clinical signs) ( 90 ) and the Neuropathic Pain Symptom Inventory (NPSI; self-administered 12-item questionnaire evaluating different symptoms of neuropathic pain) ( 91 ). Objective Devices for the Diagnosis of Neuropathy Nerve conduction studies are the current ‘gold’ standard for the diagnosis of DN. This robust measure also predicts foot ulceration and mortality. However, they are time consuming, labor intensive, costly, and impractical in routine clinical care. Skin biopsy has become a widely used tool to investigate small caliber sensory nerves including somatic unmyelinated intraepidermal nerve fibers (IENF), dermal myelinated nerve fibers, and autonomic nerve fibers in peripheral neuropathies and other conditions ( 92 ). Different techniques for tissue processing and nerve fiber evaluation have been used. For
