Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


dermal myelinated nerve fibers, and autonomic nerve fibers in peripheral neuropathies and other conditions ( 92 ). Different techniques for tissue processing and nerve fiber evaluation have been used. For diagnostic purposes in peripheral neuropathies, the current recommendation is to perform a 3-mm punch skin biopsy at the distal leg and quantification of the linear density of IENF in at least three 50-µm thick sections per biopsy, fixed in 2% PLP or Zamboni's solution, by bright-field immunohistochemistry or immunofluorescence with anti-protein gene product (PGP) 9.5 antibodies ( 93 ). Quantification of IENF density appeared more sensitive than sensory nerve conduction study or sural nerve biopsy in diagnosing SFN. Quantitative sensory testing (QST) enables more accurate assessment of sensory deficits - also those related to small fiber function - by applying controlled and quantified stimuli and standardized procedures. Moreover, assessment of thermal thresholds can be a helpful tool in the diagnostic pathway of small fiber polyneuropathy ( 16 ). Point of Care Devices for the Diagnosis of DN Significant progress has been made to develop point-of-care (POC) devices that are capable of diagnosing early, subclinical neuropathy. Papanas et al have recently comprehensively reviewed these devices ( 94 ). Therefore, we will briefly outline the following devices: the NeuroQuick 77, NeuroPAD ( 95 ), NC-Stat DPN-Check ( 96 ), Corneal Confocal Microscopy (CCM) ( 97 , 98 ), and Sudoscan ( 99 , 100 ). DPN CHECK The DPN-Check is a novel, user-friendly, handheld POC devices that performs a sural nerve conduction study in three minutes ( Figure 6 ). It is an acceptable proxy to standard nerve conduction studies which are time-consuming, expensive, and often require patients to be seen in specialist’s clinics. The DPN check has been demonstrated to have excellent reliability with an inter- and intra-observer intraclass correlation coefficients of between 0.83 and 0.97 for sensory nerve action potentials respectively ( 101 ). It also has good validity with 95% sensitivity and 71% specificity when compared against reference standard nerve conduction study ( 101 ) for the diagnosis of DN. Figure 6. DPN Check device As detailed above, nerve conduction studies are only an assessment of large nerve fiber function. DPN, on the other hand, usually involves both small and large nerve fibers, with some evidence suggesting small nerve fiber involvement early in its natural history ( 102 , 103 ). Small nerve fibers constitute 80-91% of peripheral nerve
