Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


and large nerve fibers, with some evidence suggesting small nerve fiber involvement early in its natural history ( 102 , 103 ). Small nerve fibers constitute 80-91% of peripheral nerve fibers and control pain perception, autonomic and sudomotor function. Although intraepidermal nerve fiber density measurement from lower limb skin biopsy is considered the gold standard for the diagnosis of small fiber neuropathy ( 104 , 92 ) it is invasive and hence not suitable for routine screening. However, a number of POC devices have been developed to assess small fiber dysfunction. These include: NEUROQUICK Thinly myelinated Aδ and unmyelinated C-fibers are small caliber nerves that mediate thermal sensation and nociceptive stimuli. Quantitative sensory testing of thermal discrimination thresholds is a non-invasive test used to examine impaired small nerve fiber function. NeuroQuick is a handheld device for quantitative bedside testing of cold thermal perception threshold. It allows near patient assessment of small fiber dysfunction avoiding the use of time-consuming and expensive quantitative sensory testing equipment in a laboratory. To date, one published clinical validation study has been performed in a diabetic population which suggests it is a valid and reliable screening tool for the assessment of small fiber dysfunction ( 77 ). Use of NeuroQuick was more sensitive in detecting early DPN compared to the traditional bedside screening tests such as the tuning fork or elaborate thermal testing ( 77 ). However, it is a psychophysical test that relies on the cognition/attention of the patient. Furthermore, the coefficients of variation for repeated NeuroQuick measurements ranged between 8.5% and 20.4% ( 77 ). Further studies are required to demonstrate whether the NeuroQuick is a useful screening tool to detect small fiber dysfunction in DPN. NEUROPAD This is a 10-minute test which measures sweat production on the plantar surface of the foot ( Figure 7 ). It is based on a color change in a cobalt compound from blue to pink which produces a categorical output with modest diagnostic performance for DPN compared to electrophysiological assessments. If the patch remains completely or partially blue within 10 min, the result is considered abnormal ( 105 ). No training is required to administer Neuropad, nor does it require responses from the patient. Therefore, this method of assessment may be more suitable for screening in community settings and those with cognitive or communication difficulties who have to respond to other methods of assessment. A number of
