Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


of assessment may be more suitable for screening in community settings and those with cognitive or communication difficulties who have to respond to other methods of assessment. A number of clinical validation studies ( 95 , 106 ) have been conducted which demonstrates low sensitivity for large fiber neuropathy (50-64%) but much higher sensitivity for small fiber neuropathy (80%) 107. Neuropad has also shown good reproducibility with intra- and inter-observer coefficient of variation between 4.1% and 5.1% ( 108 ). Figure 7. NeuroPAD CORNEAL CONFOCAL MICROSCOPY Corneal confocal microscopy (CCM, Figure 8 ) is a noninvasive technique used to detect small nerve fiber loss in the cornea which correlates with both increasing neuropathic severity and reduced IENFD in patients with diabetes ( 103 , 109 ). A novel technique of real-time mapping permits an area of 3.2 mm 2 to be mapped with a total of 64 theoretically non-overlapping single 400 µm 2 images ( 110 ). There have been a number of clinical validation studies including one 3.5-year prospective study in T1DM which demonstrated relatively modest to high sensitivity (82%) and specificity (69%) of CCM for the incipient DPN ( 98 ). It has good reproducibility for corneal nerve fiber length measurements with intra- and inter-observer intraclass correlation coefficients of 0.72 and 0.73 respectively. Currently, CCM is used in specialist centers, but would suit widespread application given its easy application for patient follow-up. However, large, multicenter, prospective studies are now required to confirm that corneal nerve changes unequivocally reflect the complex pathological processes in the peripheral nerve. Moreover, the establishment of a normative database and technical improvements in automated fiber measurements and wider-area image analysis may be useful to increase diagnostic performance. Figure 8. Examples of corneal nerve fiber density in a patient with no diabetic neuropathy on the left and with established diabetic neuropathy on the right. CONTACT HEAT EVOKED POTENTIALS Contact Heat Evoked Potentials (CHEPS) has been studied in healthy controls, newly diagnosed and established patients with diabetes, and patients with the metabolic syndrome. It does appear that CHEPS is capable of detecting small fiber neuropathy in the absence of other indices, and that CHEPS correlates with quantitative sensory perception and objective tests of small fiber structure (intraepidermal nerve fiber density) ( 111 ) and function (cooling detection threshold and cold pain) ( 112 ) . SUDOSCAN Sudoscan®, an instrument capable of detecting chloride ion flux in
