Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


(intraepidermal nerve fiber density) ( 111 ) and function (cooling detection threshold and cold pain) ( 112 ) . SUDOSCAN Sudoscan®, an instrument capable of detecting chloride ion flux in response to a very low current ( Figure 9 ), is an objective and quantitative sudomotor function test with promising sensitivity and specificity in the investigation of DPN ( 113 ). The entire evaluation takes only 2 minutes and can be done in an ambulatory setting. A measurement of electrochemical skin conductance (ESC) for the hands and feet, that are rich in sweat glands, is generated from the derivative current associated with the applied voltage. Sensitivity and specificity of foot ESC for classifying DPN were 87.5% and 76.2%, respectively. The area under the ROC curve (AUC) was 0.85 ( 99 ). Figure 9. SUDOSCAN test of sudomotor function being performed SUMMARY OF POINT OF CARE DEVICES In summary, the sensitivity of point of care devices seems acceptable and perhaps a combination of devices may be used in the future for detecting DPN. However, there is high heterogeneity and patient selection bias in most of the studies. Further studies are needed to evaluate the performance of point of care devices against Wilson criteria for screening of undiagnosed DPN at the population level. Prospective studies of hard endpoints (e.g., foot ulcerations and lower limb amputations) are also necessary to ensure that the benefits of screening are important for patients. The cost-effectiveness of implementing screening using these devices also needs to be carefully appraised. Point of care devices provide rapid, non-invasive tests that could be used as an objective screening test for DPN in busy diabetic clinics, ensuring adherence to current recommendation of annual assessment for all patients with diabetes that remains unfulfilled. Summary of Clinical Assessment of DPN Symptoms of neuropathy can vary markedly from one patient to another. For this reason, a number of symptom screening questionnaires with similar scoring systems have been developed. These questionnaires are useful for patient follow-up and to assess response to treatment. A detailed clinical examination is the key to the diagnosis of DPN. The latest position statement of the American Diabetes Association recommends that all patients with diabetes be screened for DPN at diagnosis in type 2 DM and 5 years after diagnosis in type 1 DM. DPN screening should be repeated annually and must include sensory examination of the feet and ankle reflexes (
