Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


type 2 DM and 5 years after diagnosis in type 1 DM. DPN screening should be repeated annually and must include sensory examination of the feet and ankle reflexes ( 16 ). One or more of the following can be used to assess sensory function: pinprick (using the Waardenberg wheel or similar instrument), temperature, vibration perception (using 128-Hz tuning fork) or 10-g monofilament pressure perception at the distal halluces. For this last test a simple substitute is to use 25 lb strain fishing line cut into 4 cm and 8 cm lengths, which translate to 10 and 1 g monofilaments respectively ( 114 ). The most sensitive measure has been shown to be the vibration detection threshold, although sensitivity of 10-g Semmes-Weinstein monofilament to identify feet at risk varies from 86 to 100% ( 115 , 116 ). Combinations of more than one test have more than 87% sensitivity in detecting DPN ( 117 ). Longitudinal studies have shown that these simple tests are good predictors of foot ulcer risk ( 118 ). Numerous composite scores to evaluate clinical signs of DN, such as the Neuropathy Impairment Score (NIS) are currently available. These, in combination with symptom scores, are useful in documenting and monitoring neuropathic patients in the clinic ( 119 ). Feet should always be examined in detail to detect ulcers, calluses, and deformities, and footwear must be inspected at every visit. However, these simple bedside tests are crude and detect DN very late in its natural history. Even the benefits gained by standardising clinical assessment using scored clinical assessments such as the Michigan Neuropathy Screening Instrument (MNSI) ( 120 ), the Toronto Clinical Neuropathy Score (TCNS) ( 84 , 85 ) and the United Kingdom Screening Test (UKST) ( 86 ), remain subjective, heavily reliant on the examiners’ interpretations ( 121 ). Bedside tests used to aid diagnosis of neuropathy such as the 10g monofilament ( 122 ), the Ipswich Touch Test ( 80 ), and vibration perception threshold using the tuning fork ( 123 ) are not only reliant on patients’ subjective response but are mainly utilised to identify the loss of protective foot sensation and risk of ulceration ( 124 ). As such, these tests tend to diagnose DPN when it is already well-established ( 125 ). Late diagnosis hampers the benefits of early identification which includes a focus on early, intensified diabetes control, and the
