Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


to diagnose DPN when it is already well-established ( 125 ). Late diagnosis hampers the benefits of early identification which includes a focus on early, intensified diabetes control, and the prevention of neuropathy-related sequelae. Conversely, the situation is different for the detection of diabetic retinopathy using digital camera-based retinal photography ( 126 ) or diabetic kidney disease using blood and urine tests. These developments led to the institution of a robust annual screening program that has led to significant reduction in blindness, such that retinopathy is no longer the commonest cause of blindness in working age adults ( 127 ) and reductions in end stage renal failure ( 128 ). Unfortunately, by the time neuropathy is detected using these crude tests, it is often very well established and consequently impossible to reverse or even to halt the inexorable neuropathic process. In the clinical research settings nerve conduction studies, quantitative sensory testing, and skin biopsy is used to identify and quantify early, subclinical neuropathy. Multiple studies have proven the value of Quantitative Sensory Testing (QST) measures in the detection of subclinical neuropathy (small fiber neuropathy), the assessment of progression of neuropathy, and the prediction of risk of foot ulceration ( 117 , 129 , 130 ). These standardized measures of vibration and thermal thresholds also play an important role in multicenter clinical trials as primary efficacy endpoints. A consensus subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology stated that QST receive a Class II rating as a diagnostic test with a type B strength of recommendation ( 131 ). The use of electrophysiologic measures (nerve conduction velocity, NCV) in both clinical practice and multicenter clinical trials is recommended ( 6 , 132 ). In a long term follow-up study of type 2 patients with diabetes ( 28 ) NCV abnormalities in the lower limbs increased from 8% at baseline to 42% after 10 years of disease. A slow progression of NCV abnormalities was seen in the Diabetes Control and Complication Trial (DCCT). The sural and peroneal nerve conduction velocities diminished by 2.8 and 2.7 m/s respectively, over a 5-year period ( 21 ). Furthermore, in the same study, patients who were free of neuropathy at baseline had a 40% incidence of abnormal NCV in the conventionally treated group versus 16% in the intensive therapy treated group after 5 years. However, the neurophysiologic findings vary widely depending on the population tested and the
