Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


NCV in the conventionally treated group versus 16% in the intensive therapy treated group after 5 years. However, the neurophysiologic findings vary widely depending on the population tested and the type and distribution of the neuropathy. Patients with painful, predominantly small fiber neuropathy have normal studies. There is consistent evidence that small, unmyelinated fibers are affected early in DM and these alterations are not diagnosed by routine NCV studies ( 45 ). Therefore, other methods, such as QST, autonomic testing, or skin biopsy with quantification of intraepidermal nerve fibers (IENF) are needed to detect these patients ( 22 , 133 , 134 ). Nevertheless electrophysiological studies play a key role in ruling out other causes of neuropathy and are essential for the identification of focal and multifocal neuropathies ( 46 , 8 ). Intraepithelial Nerve Fiber Density The importance of the skin biopsy as a diagnostic tool for DPN is increasingly being recognized ( 45 , 135 ). This technique quantitates small epidermal nerve fibers through antibody staining of the pan-axonal marker protein gene product 9.5 (PGP 9.5). Though minimally invasive (3-mm diameter punch biopsy), it enables a direct study of small fibers, which cannot be evaluated by NCV studies. It has led to the recognition of the small nerve fiber syndrome as part of IGT and the metabolic syndrome ( Figure 10 ). When patients present with the “burning foot or hand syndrome”, evaluation for glucose tolerance and the metabolic syndrome (including waist circumference, blood pressure, and plasma triglyceride and HDL-C levels) becomes mandatory. Therapeutic life style changes ( 136 ) can result in nerve fiber regeneration, reversal of the neuropathy, and alleviation of symptoms (see below). Figure 10. Intraepidermal nerve fiber loss in small vessel neuropathy. Loss of cutaneous nerve fibers that stain positive for the neuronal antigen protein gene product 9.5 (PGP 9.5) in metabolic syndrome and diabetes. It is widely recognized that neuropathy per se can affect the quality of life (QOL) of patients with diabetes. A number of instruments have been developed and validated to assess QOL in DPN. The NeuroQoL measures patients’ perceptions of the impact of neuropathy and foot ulcers ( 137 ). The Norfolk QOL questionnaire for DPN is a validated tool addressing specific symptoms and the impact of large, small, and autonomic nerve fiber functions ( 138 ). The tool has been used in clinical trials and is available in several
