Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


addressing specific symptoms and the impact of large, small, and autonomic nerve fiber functions ( 138 ). The tool has been used in clinical trials and is available in several validated language versions. It was tested in 262 subjects (healthy controls, controls with diabetes, and DPN patients): differences between DN patients and both diabetes and healthy controls were significant (p<0.05) for all item groupings (small fiber, large fiber, and autonomic nerve function; symptoms; and activities of daily living (ADL). Total QOL scores correlated with total neuropathy scores. The ADL, total scores, and autonomic scores were also greater in controls with diabetes compared to healthy controls (p<0.05), suggesting that diabetes per se impacts some aspects of QO ( 137 ). The diagnosis of DPN is mainly a clinical one with the aid of specific diagnostic tests according to the type and severity of the neuropathy. However other non-diabetic causes of neuropathy must always be excluded, depending on the clinical findings (B12 deficiency, hypothyroidism, uremia, CIDP, etc.) ( Figure 11 ). Figure 11. A diagnostic algorithm for assessment of neurologic deficit and classification of neuropathic syndromes: B12, vitamin B12; BUN, blood urea nitrogen; CHEPS, Contact Heat Evoked Potentials CIDP, chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy; EMG, electromyogram; Hx, history; MGUS, monoclonal gammopathy of unknown significance; NCV, nerve conduction studies; NIS, neurologic impairment score (sensory and motor evaluation); NSS, neurologic symptom score; QAFT, quantitative autonomic function tests; QST, quantitative sensory tests; Sudo, sudomotor function testing. Central Nervous System Involvement Hitherto considered a disease of the peripheral nervous system, there is now mounting evidence of central nervous system (CNS) involvement in DN ( Figure 12 ). Several magnetic resonance imaging studies provide valuable insight into CNS alterations in DN. From the spinal cord ( 139 , 140 ) to the cerebral cortex, structural ( 141 ), biochemical ( 142 , 143 ), perfusion ( 144 ), and functional changes ( 145 , 146 ) have been described. Although the initial injury may occur in the peripheral nerves, concomitant changes within the CNS may have a crucial role in the pathogenesis and determining clinical phenotype and even treatment response in painful DN. Central nervous system involvement was first recognized in the 1960’s when post-mortem autopsy studies of patients with advanced diabetes found evidence of spinal cord atrophy, demyelination, and axonal loss ( 147 , 148 ). These findings were largely dismissed as being secondary to poor diabetes
