Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


patients with advanced diabetes found evidence of spinal cord atrophy, demyelination, and axonal loss ( 147 , 148 ). These findings were largely dismissed as being secondary to poor diabetes control and infection (e.g., syphilis) rather than DN. Indeed, the pathological abnormalities in the spinal cord were reported in isolation and not examined in the context of DN related peripheral nerve changes. Subsequent studies performed in the late 70’s and 80’s utilized advances in somatosensory evoked potentials and demonstrated central (brain and spinal cord) slowing in humans with DN ( 149 ) and rodent models ( 150 ). With the advent and accessibility of demonstrated magnetic resonance imaging in the 90’s and early 00’s, investigators were able to demonstrate clear spinal cord involvement in the form of cervical cord atrophy not only in patients with established DN ( 140 ) but also in those with early subclinical DN ( 139 ). Subsequent studies have sought to apply advances multimodal magnetic resonance imaging to gain unique insights into brain involvement, particularly brain regions involved with somatosensory and nociception in DN – e.g. primary somatosensory cortex ( 141 ) and the thalamus ( 142 ). Accompanying the reduction in cervical spine volume is a reduction in primary somatosensory cortical volume in both painful and painless DN ( 141 ). Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy studies have demonstrated evidence of thalamic neuronal dysfunction in painless but not in painful DN – indicating that preservation of thalamic neuronal function may be a prerequisite for the perception of pain in DN ( 142 ). In addition, there was also an increase in thalamic vascularity ( 144 ), altered thalamic-cortical functional connectivity ( 146 ), and a reorganization of the primary somatosensory cortex in patients with painful DN ( 146 ). Thus, the involvement of the central nervous system in DN has opened a whole new area of further research and has great potential for future patient stratification and development of new therapeutic targets. Figure 12. Multimodal magnetic resonance imaging studies of the central nervous system in diabetic neuropathy. Risk Factors for Diabetic Polyneuropathies Diabetic neuropathy is the end results of a culmination of several etiologically linked pathophysiological processes – some not fully understood. Although hyperglycemia and duration of diabetes play an important role in DN, other risk factors have been identified. The EURODIAB Prospective Complications study demonstrated that the incidence of DN is associated with other
