Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


duration of diabetes play an important role in DN, other risk factors have been identified. The EURODIAB Prospective Complications study demonstrated that the incidence of DN is associated with other potentially modifiable cardiovascular risk factors, including hypertriglyceridemia, hypertension, obesity and smoking ( 41 ). In the Look AHEAD study in patients with type 2 diabetes, there was a greater increase in neuropathic symptoms (but not neuropathic signs) in the control cohort (diabetes support and education program) compared to the cohort receiving intensive diet and exercise lifestyle intervention programmed focused on weight loss ( 151 ). TREATMENT OF DIABETIC POLYNEUROPATHIES Treatment of DN should be targeted towards a number of different aspects: firstly, treatment of specific underlying pathogenic mechanisms; secondly, treatment of symptoms and improvement in QOL; and thirdly, prevention of progression and treatment of complications of neuropathy. Targeting Risk Factors GLYCEMIC AND METABOLIC CONTROL Several long-term prospective studies that assessed the effects of intensive diabetes therapy on the prevention and progression of chronic diabetic complications have been published. The large randomized trials such as the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT) and the UK Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) were not designed to evaluate the effects of intensive diabetes therapy on DPN, but rather to study the influence of such treatment on the development and progression of the chronic diabetic complications ( 152 , 153 ). Thus, only a minority of the patients enrolled in these studies had symptomatic DPN at entry. Studies in patients with type 1 diabetes show that intensive diabetes therapy retards but does not completely prevent the development of DPN. In the DCCT/EDIC cohort, the benefits of former intensive insulin treatment persisted for 13-14 years after DCCT closeout and provided evidence of a durable effect of prior intensive treatment on DPN and cardiac autonomic neuropathy (“hyperglycemic memory”) ( 154 , 155 ). In contrast, in patients with type 2 diabetes, who represent the vast majority of people with diabetes, the results were largely negative. The UKPDS showed a lower rate of impaired vibration perception threshold (VPT) (VPT >25 V) after 15 years for intensive therapy (IT) vs. conventional therapy (CT) (31% vs. 52%). However, the only additional time point at which VPT reached a significant difference between IT and CT was the 9-year follow-up, whereas the rates after 3, 6, and 12 years did not differ between the groups. Likewise, the rates of absent knee and ankle
