Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


patients with type 2 diabetes. However, the Steno study used only vibration detection, which measures exclusively the changes in large fiber function. DYSLIPIDEMIA Observational and cross-sectional studies have demonstrated, to varying degrees, an association between lipids and DPN ( 159 ). The strongest evidence, however, is for the association of elevated levels of triglycerides and DPN ( 160 ). In a study of patients with T2DM there was a graded relationship between triglyceride levels and the risk of lower-limb amputations ( 160 ). Likewise, another study demonstrated that hypertriglyceridemia was an independent risk factor of loss of sural (myelinated) nerve fiber density and lower limb amputations ( 161 ). In addition to hypertriglyceridemia, low-level of HDL cholesterol is reported to as an independent risk factor for DPN ( 159 ). However, clinical studies investigating the effects of statins on the development of DPN are far from conclusive. This is partly because several large statin studies that included patients with diabetes did not report data on the development of microvascular disease ( 162 , 163 ) let alone DPN. The Freemantle Diabetes Study, an observational study with cross-sectional and longitudinal analysis, suggested that statin or fibrate therapy may protect against DPN in T2DM ( 164 ). Two subsequent, relatively small, randomized clinical studies have reported improvements in nerve conduction parameters of DPN following 6 to 12 weeks of statin treatment ( 165 , 166 ). The Fenofibrate Intervention and Event Lowering in Diabetes (FIELD) study has since, demonstrated that fibrates are beneficial in preventing microvascular complications (retinopathy and nephropathy) and non-traumatic lower limb amputations but DPN outcomes have not been reported ( 167 ). Subsequently, a patient registry study from Denmark, found that the use of statins before diagnosis of incident diabetes was protective against the development of DPN ( 168 ). In summary, whether lipid lowering treatment reduces the risk of DPN —a possibility raised by these data—will need to be addressed in other studies preferably in randomized controlled trials. HYPERTENSION An association between hypertension and DPN has been demonstrated in several observational studies in both T2DM ( 169 , 170 ) and T1DM ( 171 ). There is some preliminary evidence from relatively small randomized control trials with improvements in DPN based on clinical and nerve conduction parameters following antihypertensive treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors ( 172 ) and calcium channel blockers ( 173 ). However, the
