Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


in DPN based on clinical and nerve conduction parameters following antihypertensive treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors ( 172 ) and calcium channel blockers ( 173 ). However, the significance of this relationship is uncertain as several large intervention studies targeting hypertension ( 26 ) studies failed to show a reduction in DPN despite clear benefits in renal and retinal complications ( 174 ). One possible explanation is that the methods used in these intervention studies to diagnose/quantify DPN lacked the necessary sensitivity or reliability to diagnose/quantity DPN let alone examine differences between study groups. The heterogeneity in effect size estimates for this outcome in many of these studies supports this view. Another possible explanation for this finding could be the strengthening of guidelines for diabetes care and the more widespread routine use antihypertensive treatment. OBESITY Several studies have revealed an association between obesity and polyneuropathy even in the presence of normoglycemia ( 175 , 176 ) The prevalence of polyneuropathy, however, increases in obese patients with prediabetes and diabetes ( 177 ). Subsequent studies appear to demonstrate that adopting a healthy lifestyle incorporating a balanced diet, regular aerobic and weight-resistance physical activities may reverse the process, particularly if they are undertaken at an early stage of DPN ( 136 , 178 , 179 ). A randomized control study of a 2.5-hour, weekly supervised treadmill exercise and dietary intervention program aimed at normalizing body mass index or losing 7% baseline body weight in T2DM demonstrated significant improvement in markers (intraepithelial nerve fiber density and regenerative capacity) of DPN ( 180 ). However, once DPN is established, restoration of normal weight did not show significant improvement. Targeting Underlying Pathophysiological Mechanisms OXIDATIVE STRESS Several studies have shown that hyperglycemia causes oxidative stress in tissues that are susceptible to complications of diabetes, including peripheral nerves. Figure 2 presents our current understanding of the mechanisms and potential therapeutic pathways for oxidative stress-induced nerve damage. Studies show that hyperglycemia induces an increased presence of markers of oxidative stress, such as superoxide and peroxynitrite ions, and that antioxidant defense moieties are reduced in patients with diabetic peripheral neuropathy ( 181 ). Therapies known to reduce oxidative stress are therefore recommended. Therapies that are under investigation include aldose reductase inhibitors (ARIs), α-lipoic acid, γ-linolenic acid, benfotiamine, and protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitors. Advanced glycation end-products (AGE) are the result of non-enzymatic addition of glucose or other
