Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


include aldose reductase inhibitors (ARIs), α-lipoic acid, γ-linolenic acid, benfotiamine, and protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitors. Advanced glycation end-products (AGE) are the result of non-enzymatic addition of glucose or other saccharides to proteins, lipids, and nucleotides. In diabetes, excess glucose accelerates AGE generation that leads to intra- and extracellular protein cross-linking and protein aggregation. Activation of RAGE (AGE receptors) alters intracellular signaling and gene expression, releases pro-inflammatory molecules, and results in an increased production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) that contribute to diabetic microvascular complications. Aminoguanidine, an inhibitor of AGE formation, showed good results in animal studies but trials in humans have been discontinued because of toxicity ( 182 ). Benfotiamine is a transketolase activator that reduces tissue AGEs. Several independent pilot studies have demonstrated its effectiveness in diabetic polyneuropathy. The BEDIP 3-week study used a 200 mg daily dose, and the BENDIP 6-week study used 300 and 600 mg daily doses; both studies demonstrated subjective improvements in neuropathy scores in the groups receiving benfotiamine, with a pronounced decrease in reported pain levels ( 183 ). In a 12-week study, the use of benfotiamine plus vitamin B6/B12 significantly improved nerve conduction velocity in the peroneal nerve along with appreciable improvements in vibratory perception. An alternate combination of benfotiamine (100 mg) and pyridoxine (100 mg) has been shown to improve diabetic polyneuropathy in a small number of patients with diabetes ( 184 , 185 ). The use of benfotiamine in combination with other antioxidant therapies such as α-Lipoic acid (see below) are commercially available. ARIs reduce the flux of glucose through the polyol pathway, inhibiting tissue accumulation of sorbitol and fructose. In a 12-month study of zenarestat a dose dependent improvement in nerve fiber density was shown ( 186 ). In a one year trial of fidarestat in Japanese patients with diabetes, improvement of symptoms was shown ( 187 ), and a 3 year study of epalrestat showed improved nerve function (NCV) as well as vibration perception ( 188 ). Epalrestat is marketed only in Japan and India. Newer ARIs are currently being explored, and some positive results have emerged ( 189 ), but it is becoming clear that these may be insufficient per se and combinations of treatments may be needed. Gamma-Linolenic acid can cause significant improvement in clinical and electrophysiological tests for neuropathy ( 190 ). Alpha-Lipoic acid or thioctic acid has been used for its antioxidant properties and
