Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


in symptom scores, endothelium dependent skin blood flow measurements, and quality of life scores in the ruboxistaurin treated group ( 200 ). These studies and the NATHAN studies have pointed out the change in the natural history of DPN with the advent of therapeutic lifestyle change, statins and ACE inhibitors, which have slowed the progression of DPN and drastically altered the requirements for placebo-controlled studies. Several studies ( 201 , 202 ) have demonstrated that patients with type 1 diabetes who retain some β-cell activity are considerably less prone to developing microvascular complications than those who are completely C-peptide deficient, and that C-peptide may have substantial anti-oxidant, cytoprotective, anti-anabolic, and anti-inflammatory effects. C-peptide administration for 6 months in type 1 diabetes has been shown to improve sensory nerve function ( 203 ). GROWTH FACTORS There is increasing evidence that there is a deficiency of nerve growth factor (NGF) in diabetes, as well as the dependent neuropeptides substance P (SP) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and that this contributes to the clinical perturbations in small-fiber function ( 204 ). Clinical trials with NGF have not been successful but are subject to certain caveats with regard to design; however, NGF still holds promise for sensory and autonomic neuropathies ( 205 ). The pathogenesis of DN includes loss of vasa nervorum, so it is likely that appropriate application of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) would reverse the dysfunction. Introduction of VEGF gene into the muscle of DM animal models improved nerve function ( 206 ). However, VEGF gene studies with transfection of the gene into the muscle in humans failed to meet efficacy end points in painful DPN trials 207. Hepatocyte growth factor ( 208 , 209 ) (HGF) is another potent angiogenic cytokine under study for the treatment of painful neuropathy. INGAP peptide comprises the core active sequence of Islet Neogenesis Associated Protein (INGAP), a pancreatic cytokine that can induce new islet formation and restore euglycemia in diabetic rodents. Maysinger et al showed significant improvement in thermal hypoalgesia in diabetic mice after a 2-week treatment with INGAP peptide ( 210 , 211 ). IMMUNE THERAPY Several different autoantibodies in human sera have been reported that can react with epitopes in neuronal cells and have been associated with DN. Milicevic et al have reported a 12% incidence of a predominantly motor form of neuropathy in patients with diabetes associated with monosialoganglioside antibodies (anti
