Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


and have been associated with DN. Milicevic et al have reported a 12% incidence of a predominantly motor form of neuropathy in patients with diabetes associated with monosialoganglioside antibodies (anti GM1 antibodies) ( 63 ). Perhaps the clearest link between autoimmunity and neuropathy has been the demonstration of an 11-fold increased likelihood of CIDP, multiple motor polyneuropathy, vasculitis, and monoclonal gammopathies in diabetes ( 61 ). New data, however, support a predictive role of the presence of antineuronal antibodies on the later development of neuropathy, suggesting that these antibodies may not be innocent bystanders but neurotoxins ( 212 ). There may be selected cases, particularly those with autonomic neuropathy, evidence of antineuronal autoimmunity, and CIDP, that may benefit from intravenous immunoglobulin or large dose steroids ( 59 ). Summary of Treatment of Diabetic Peripheral Neuropathy In summary, the risk factors for DPN are well recognized and to-date only small-scale intervention studies targeting these risk factors that have used appropriate DPN biomarkers have been conducted. Nevertheless, these have provided preliminary evidence for the efficacy of multifactorial risk factor management in preventing the development and progression of DPN. Hence, early identifications of subjects with insipient/sub-clinical neuropathy using validated, yet novel non-invasive point of care devices will allow larger studies to determine if targeted intensified cardiometabolic risk factor control can prevent clinical DPN or halt disease progression. Unfortunately, despite several clinical trials, there has been relatively little progress in the development of disease modifying treatments despite some advances in the management of symptoms in painful DN, as described below. PAINFUL DIABETIC PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY Pathogenesis Peripheral neuropathic pain in diabetes is defined as “pain arising as a direct consequence of abnormalities in the peripheral somatosensory system” after exclusion of other causes ( 213 ). Nerve damage results in the release of inflammatory mediators which activate intracellular signal transduction pathways in the nociceptor terminal, prompting an increase in the production, transport, and membrane insertion of transducer channels and voltage-gated ion channels ( 214 ). Following nerve injury, different types of voltage-gated sodium and calcium channels are up-regulated at the site of the lesion and in the dorsal root ganglion membrane, promoting ectopic spontaneous activity along the primary afferent neuron and determining hyperexcitability associated with lowered activation threshold, hyper-reactivity to stimuli, and abnormal release of neurotransmitters such as substance P and glutamate ( 215 , 216 ). As a consequence of this hyperactivity in primary afferent
