Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


activation threshold, hyper-reactivity to stimuli, and abnormal release of neurotransmitters such as substance P and glutamate ( 215 , 216 ). As a consequence of this hyperactivity in primary afferent nociceptive neurons, important secondary changes may occur in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord and higher up in the central nervous system leading to neuron hyperexcitability. This phenomenon, called central sensitization, is a form of use-dependent synaptic plasticity, considered a major pathophysiological mechanism of neuropathic pain ( 217 ). Diagnosis Painful DPN is often underdiagnosed and under treated. Binns-Hall et al. trialed a ‘one-stop’ microvascular screening service, which tested a model for patients to receive combined eye, foot (DPN and painful-DPN), and renal screening ( 218 ). A new diagnosis of painful-DPN in this cohort was identified in 25% of participants using the validated screening tool for neuropathic pain, the Doleur Neuropathique en 4 Questions (DN4). Additionally, Daousi et al. found that in a community sample of 350 patients with diabetes 12.5% of patients with painful-DPN had not reported their symptoms to their treating physician ( 219 ). This study also found that 39.3% had never received treatment for their painful neuropathy. In the clinical environment, most cases of painful DPN can be diagnosed with a careful history to identify presence of typical painful neuropathic symptoms lasting ≥ 3 months and clinical examination to demonstrate the clinical signs of DPN. In these circumstances and other causes are excluded (see above), there is no need for further investigations. A number of self-administered questionnaires have been developed, validated, translated, and subjected to cross-cultural adaptation both to diagnose and distinguish neuropathic as opposed to non-neuropathic pain (screening tools such as the Leeds Assessment of Neuropathic Symptoms and Signs (LANSS) Pain Scale ( 220 ), Douleur Neuropathique en 4 questions (DN4), Neuropathic Pain Questionnaire (NPS) ( 221 ), pain DETECT ( 89 ) and to assess pain quality and intensity such as the Short-Form McGill Pain Questionnaire ( 222 ), the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) ( 223 ), and the Neuropathic Pain Symptom Inventory (NPSI) ( 224 ). It is important to assess the intensity (severity) of neuropathic pain as it is helpful when assessing and monitoring response to therapy. The best approach is to use a simple 11-Point numerical rating scale (Likert scale) or a visual analogue scale. In clinical trials of neuropathic pain treatment a number of questionnaires are used to
