Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


is to use a simple 11-Point numerical rating scale (Likert scale) or a visual analogue scale. In clinical trials of neuropathic pain treatment a number of questionnaires are used to capture the complex, multidimensional impact of chronic pain. According to IMMPACT (Initiative on Methods, Measurement and Pain Assessment in Clinical Trials) the following assessments are performed to assess the efficacy and effectiveness of new treatments: 1. pain intensity measured on a 0 to 10 numerical rating scale (NRS); 2. physical functioning assessed by the Multidimensional Pain Inventory (MPI) and Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) Interferences scale; 3. emotional functioning, assessed by the Beck Depression Inventory (BPI) and Profile of Mood states; and 4. patient rating of overall improvement, assessed by the Patient Global Impression of Change (PGI-C) ( 225 ). Quality of Life Over time the persistence of extremely unpleasant painful symptoms can have a profound impact upon its sufferers’ lives. This often results in a poor quality of life ( 226 ), disruption of employment ( 227 ), and mood disturbance ( 13 ). This adds to the burden of suffering and increases the challenge of managing neuropathic effectively. This is further compounded when patients also suffer from other co-morbid conditions associated with diabetes. Painful-DPN is also an expensive condition, incurring high healthcare costs ( 228 ). Data from the US found that patients with DPN and painful-DPN have greater healthcare resource utilization and costs than those with diabetes alone ( 228 ). Patients with severe painful-DPN incurred five-fold higher annual direct medical costs (USD $30,755) than for patients with diabetes alone (USD $6632) ( 226 ). Sensory Profiling For many years, sensory profiling has been the mainstay for identifying a homogenous subgroup of neuropathic pain patients in clinical pain research. The basis of this approach is that painful symptoms reflect specific pathophysiological mechanisms, which are present to varying degrees in individual patients ( 229 , 230 ). Detailed sensory profiling using quantitative sensory testing (QST) can be used to subgroup patients into more homogenous cohorts (pain phenotypes), which could then be targeted with treatments known to act specifically on pathophysiological pathways underlying the phenotypes ( 231 ) ( Figure 13 ). QST refers to a battery of standardized, psychophysical tests (e.g., thermal testing, pin prick, pressure algometry, and von Frey filaments) used to assess central and peripheral nervous system sensory function ( 232 ). In DPN, QST has been
