Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


adding pregabalin (300 mg) to duloxetine (60 mg) improved the dimensions of ‘pressing pain’ and ‘evoked pain’ more significantly. On the other hand, increasing duloxetine from 60 mg to 120 mg daily improved the dimension ‘paresthesia/dysesthesia’ to a greater extent. SENSORY PHENOTYPING TO PREDICT THERAPEUTIC RESPONSE In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, and phenotype-stratified study of patients with painful DPN Demant et al. reported that oxcarbazepine was more efficacious for relief of peripheral neuropathic pain in patients with the irritable vs the nonirritable nociceptor phenotype ( 234 ). Based on this and other recent studies, current opinion with regard to neuropathic pain clinical trials recommends a detailed sensory profiling of participants at baseline; and even if there is no significant separation of a drug with placebo, a subgroup analysis can be performed to see if the drug was efficacious in a particular subgroup. If there is a clear signal that this was the case, a further, adequately powered, phenotype stratified trial would be designed. Sensory profiling can also identify subgroups with altered endogenous pain modulation to predict treatment outcomes of drugs and other interventions that affect a given mechanism. Figure 14 describes the different nerve fibers affected and possible targeted treatments. In a study of pain modulation in DPN, individuals were assessed using QST for conditioned pain modulation (CPM), a psychophysical paradigm in which central pain inhibition is measured via the phenomenon of ‘pain inhibiting pain,’ via the simultaneous administration of a conditioning painful stimulus at a distant body site. The pain in participants with abnormal CPM was more receptive to duloxetine, which is believed to increase descending inhibitory pain pathway activation, than individuals with normal pain modulation, although there was no comparison to placebo in this open-label study ( 238 ). Figure 14. Different mechanisms of pain and possible treatments. C fibers are modulated by sympathetic input with spontaneous firing of different neurotransmitters to the dorsal root ganglia, spinal cord and cerebral cortex. Sympathetic blockers (e.g., clonidine) and depletion of axonal substance P used by C fibers as their neurotransmitter (e.g., by capsaicin) may improve pain. In contrast Aδ fibers utilize Na+ channels for their conduction and agents that inhibit Na+ exchange such as antiepileptic drugs, tricyclic antidepressants, and insulin may ameliorate this form of pain. Anticonvulsants (carbamazepine, gabapentin, pregabalin, topiramate) potentiate activity of g-aminobutyric acid and inhibit Na+ and Ca2+ channels, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, and α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid receptors. Dextromethorphan
