Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


determine an individual’s clinical pain phenotypes. Over the last decade, resting-state functional MR imaging (RS-fMRI) – a quick, and simple non-invasive technique – has become an increasingly appealing way to examine spontaneous brain activity in individuals, without relying on external stimulation tasks. During a typical RS-fMRI examination, the hemodynamic response to spontaneous neuronal activity (bold oxygen level dependent, BOLD) signal is acquired whilst subjects are instructed to simply rest in the MR scanner ( 242 ). The data acquired is used in brain mapping to evaluate regional interactions or functional connectivity, which occur in a resting state. Most studies use a machine learning approach to identify patterns of functional connectivity, which differentiates patients from controls. RS-fMRI experiments in painful DPN have reported greater thalamic-insula functional connectivity and decreased thalamic-somatosensory cortical functional connectivity in patients with the irritable versus non-irritable nociceptor phenotype ( 235 ). There was a significant positive correlation between thalamic-insula functional connectivity with self-reported pain scores ( 235 ). Conversely, there was a more significant reduction in thalamic-somatosensory cortical functional connectivity in those with more severe neuropathy. This demonstrates how RS-fMRI measures of functional connectivity relates to both the somatic and non-somatic assessments of painful DPN. In one study, using a machine learning approach to integrate anatomical and functional connectivity data achieved an accuracy of 92% and sensitivity of 90%, indicating good overall performance ( 235 ). Multimodal MR imaging combining structural and RS-fMRI has also been used to predict treatment response in painful DPN. Responders to intravenous lidocaine treatment have significantly greater S1 cortical volume and greater functional connectivity between the insular cortex and corticolimbic system compared to non-responders ( 235 ). The insular cortex plays a pivotal role in processing the emotion and cognitive dimensions of the chronic pain experience. The corticolimbic circuits have also long been implicated in reward, decision making, and fear learning. Hence, these findings suggest that this network may have a role in determining treatment response in painful DPN. Using advanced multimodal MR neuroimaging, a number of studies have demonstrated alterations in pain processing brain regions, which relate to clinical pain phenotype, treatment response, and behavioral/psychological factors impacted by pain. Taken together, these assessments could serve as a possible Central Pain Signature for painful DPN. The challenge now is to apply this potential pain biomarker at an individual level in order to demonstrate clinical utility. To this end, applying machine learning (
