Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


for painful DPN. The challenge now is to apply this potential pain biomarker at an individual level in order to demonstrate clinical utility. To this end, applying machine learning ( 243 ) to leverage brain imaging features from a quick 6-minute RS-fMRI scan to classify individual patients into different clinical pain phenotypes is appealing. Future studies should externally validate and optimize current models in larger patient cohorts to examine if/how such models can be used as biomarkers in clinical trials of pain therapeutics. Although many of the findings described are consistent with neuroimaging studies in other chronic pain conditions, it is difficult to assess convergence of findings across a number of relatively small cohort studies employing different analytical methods to derive complex models involving a large number of distributed brain regions ( 244 ). These are important limitations that are being addressed with 1) a number of large scale multi-center studies in progress or in preparation (MAPP consortium ( 245 ) and Placebo Imaging consortium ( 246 ), and 2) several consensus statements by key stakeholders, promoting standardized approaches and reporting and transparent/sharable models. General Principals of Managing Painful DPN Managing painful symptoms in DPN may constitute a considerable treatment challenge. The efficacy of a single therapeutic agent is not the rule, and most patients require combination therapy to control the pain. The present ‘trial and error’ approach is to offer the available therapies in a stepwise fashion until an effective treatment is achieved ( 247 , 248 ). Effective pain treatment considers a favorable balance between pain relief and side effects without implying a maximum effect. The following general considerations in the pharmacotherapy of neuropathic pain require attention ( 249 ): 1. The appropriate and effective drug has to be tried and identified in each patient by carefully titrating the dose based on efficacy and side effects. 2. Lack of efficacy should be judged only after 2-4 weeks of treatment using an adequate dose. 3. As the evidence from clinical trials suggests a ≥ 50% reduction in pain for any monotherapy, combination therapy is considered a ‘robust’ response. A reduction of pain of 30-49% may be considered a ‘clinically relevant’ response. 4. Potential drug interactions have to be considered given the frequent use of polypharmacy in patients with diabetes. For many patients, optimal management of chronic pain may require a multidisciplinary team approach with appropriate behavioral therapy, as well
