Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


given the frequent use of polypharmacy in patients with diabetes. For many patients, optimal management of chronic pain may require a multidisciplinary team approach with appropriate behavioral therapy, as well as input from a broad range of healthcare professionals. Here we highlight the common agents used to manage painful DPN and key papers to demonstrate the evidence base. The most recent guidelines for pharmacotherapy for neuropathic pain in general and specifically in painful DPN can be found elsewhere ( 16 , 250 , 251 , 252 , 253 , 254 , 67 , 255 , 256 ). ANTIDEPRESSANTS Antidepressants are commonest agents used in the treatment of chronic neuropathic pain ( 217 ). The putative mechanisms of interrupting pain transmission by these agents include inhibition of norepinephrine and/or serotonin reuptake within the endogenous descending pain-inhibitory systems in the brain and spinal cord ( 257 ). Antagonism of N-Methyl-D-Aspartate receptors that mediate hyperalgesia and allodynia has also been proposed. Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs) Imipramine, amitriptyline, and clomipramine induce a balanced reuptake inhibition of both norepinephrine and serotonin, while desipramine is a relatively selective norepinephrine inhibitor. The most frequent adverse events of tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are anticholinergic symptoms including tiredness and dry mouth and may exacerbate cardiovascular and gastrointestinal autonomic neuropathy. The starting dose should be 25 mg (10 mg in frail patients) taken as a single night time dose one hour before sleep. The maximum dose is usually 150 mg per day and doses >100mg should be avoided in the elderly. TCAs should be used with caution in patients with orthostatic hypotension and are contraindicated in patients with unstable angina, recent (<6 months) myocardial infarction, closed-angle glaucoma, heart failure, history of ventricular arrhythmias, significant conduction system disease, and long QT syndrome. Their use is limited by relatively high rates of adverse events and several contraindications. Serotonin Noradrenaline Reuptake Inhibitors (SNRI) The efficacy and safety of duloxetine has been evaluated in 7 RCTs establishing it as a mainstay treatment option in painful DPN. Several systematic reviews demonstrate a moderate strength of evidence for duloxetine reduces neuropathic pain to a clinically meaningful degree in patients with painful DPN ( 258 , 259 , 260 ). Patients with higher pain intensity tend to respond better than those with lower pain levels. The most frequent side effects of duloxetine (60/120 mg/day) include nausea (16.7/27.4%), somnolence (20.2/28.3%), dizziness (9.6/23%), constipation (4.9/10.6%), dry mouth (7.1/15%), and reduced appetite
