Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


not benefit from worthwhile pain relief but experienced adverse event ( 265 ). In contrast to gabapentin, pregabalin is a more specific α2-δ ligand with a 6-fold higher binding affinity. It also has a more rapid onset with a dose-dependent linear pharmacokinetic profiled i.e., 600mg/day being more effective that 300mg/day ( 266 ). Hence, the administration (BD vs QDS) and dose titration of pregabalin in considerably easier compared to gabapentin. A recent Cochrane review reported moderate quality evidence for the efficacy of pregabalin in painful DPN compared to placebo ( 267 ). 3 or 4 in 10 people had pain reduced by half or more with pregabalin 300 mg or 600 mg daily, and 2 or 3 in 10 with placebo. Pain was reduced by a third or more for 5 or 6 in 10 people with pregabalin 300 mg or 600 mg daily, and 4 or 5 in 10 with placebo. Common side-effects associated with the use of gabapentinoids include weight gain, edema, dizziness, and somnolence. They should be used with caution in patients with congestive cardiac failure (NYHA class III or IV) and renal impairment (dose reduction required). Pooled trial analysis of adverse events showed a higher risk of side-effects with increasing pregabalin dose but not older age ( 268 ). The misuse and abuse of gabapentinoids is a growing problem in the US and in Europe necessitating monitoring for signs of misuse/abuse and caution when used in at risk populations ( 269 ). Gabapentinoids may also increase the risk of respiratory depression, a serious concern for patients taking opioids or with underlying respiratory impairment ( 270 , 271 , 272 ). TOPICAL CAPSAICIN C-fibers utilize the neuropeptide substance P as their neurotransmitter, and depletion of axonal substance P (through the use of capsaicin) will often lead to amelioration of the pain. Prolonged application of capsaicin, a highly selective agonist of transient receptor potential vanilloid-1 (TRPV1), depletes stores of substance P, and possibly other neurotransmitters, from sensory nerve endings. This reduces or abolishes the transmission of painful stimuli from the peripheral nerve fibers to the higher centers ( 273 ). The 8% capsaicin patch (Qutenza) ( 274 ) is authorized for the treatment of peripheral neuropathic pain. In one RCT in painful DPN, a single application of 8% capsaicin patch applied for 30min provided modest pain relief for up to 3 months ( 275 ). Specialist trained staff
