Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


one RCT in painful DPN, a single application of 8% capsaicin patch applied for 30min provided modest pain relief for up to 3 months ( 275 ). Specialist trained staff are required for application which can be repeated every 2-3 months. A Cochrane review of low dose (0.025% and 0.075%) topical capsaicin cream was not able to provide any recommendations due to insufficient data ( 276 ). LIDOCAINE Lidocaine has unique analgesic properties. Although the exact mechanism by which intravenous lidocaine provides systemic analgesia is unknown, it is thought to have both peripheral and central mechanisms of action ( 277 , 278 , 279 ). It exhibits state-dependent binding where sodium channels that are rapidly and repeatedly activated and inactivated are more readily blocked ( 280 ). This state-dependence is thought to be very important in limiting the hyperexcitability of cells exhibiting abnormal activity. Thus, it is likely to have greater efficacy in patients with neuropathic pain ( 281 , 282 ) and has been used to relieve chronic pain for over 50 years ( 283 ). A Cochrane review of 30 RCT found that intravenous lidocaine ( 284 ), which is more effective than its oral analogue (mexilitine, NNT10-38) and gastrointestinal intolerance most common side effect and major factor limiting its use) ( 284 , 285 ) and is more effective than placebo in decreasing neuropathic pain. It was found to be generally well tolerated with little or no side effects ( 286 ). Hence, intravenous lidocaine is a recognized treatment option for patients with severe painful DPN ( 287 ), and is included in clinical guidelines ( 288 ). Although 5% lidocaine patch is being used in patients with postherpetic neuralgia ( 289 ), there is insufficient evidence to recommend its use in those with painful DPN. OPIOIDS Tramadol and NMDA Receptor Antagonists The most examined compounds in painful DPN are tramadol, oxycodone, and tapentadol. Tramadol is a centrally acting weak opioid and SNRI for use in treating moderate to severe pain. More severe pain requires administration of strong opioids such as oxycodone (µ-opioid agonist) or tapentadol (µ-opioid agonist and SNRI). There is limited data available on the efficacy of these agents from relatively small-scale studies. Recent Cochrane reviews graded the available evidence as mostly of low or very low quality and likely to overestimate the efficacy of tramadol and oxycodone in the treatment of painful DPN (
