Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


reviews graded the available evidence as mostly of low or very low quality and likely to overestimate the efficacy of tramadol and oxycodone in the treatment of painful DPN ( 290 , 291 ). Side effects typical of opioids were common including somnolence, headache, and nausea. There is an increased risk of serotonergic syndrome if tramadol and tapentadol are prescribed with other agents with serotonin reuptake inhibitor properties and thus best avoided. Nevertheless, there is role for these agents as 2 nd or 3 rd line analgesics for painful DPN in carefully selected patients unresponsive to standard treatments. Non-pharmacological and non-opioid analgesic treatments should be optimized and established and/or not tolerated/contraindicated before opioid treatment is considered ( 292 ). Regular monitoring/evaluation of efficacy is recommended particularly if treatment is longer than 3 months. Opioids are associated with less pain relief during longer trials possibly due to opioid tolerance or opioid induced hyperalgesia. Moreover, adverse outcomes such as dependence, overdose, depression, and impaired functional status were more common in patients with neuropathic pain (painful DPN 68%) receiving long-term (>90 days) vs short term (<90 days) of treatment ( 293 ). Hence, referral to specialist or centers with experience in opioid use is recommended to avoid risks. PSYCHOLOGICAL SUPPORT A psychological component to pain should not be underestimated. Hence, an explanation to the patient that even severe pain may remit, particularly in poorly controlled patients with acute painful neuropathy or in those painful symptoms precipitated by intensive insulin treatment. Thus, the empathetic approach addressing the concerns and anxieties of patients with neuropathic pain is essential for their successful management ( 294 ). PHYSICAL MEASURES The temperature of the painful neuropathic foot may be increased due to arterio-venous shunting. Cold water immersion may reduce shunt flow and relieve pain. Allodynia may be relieved by wearing silk pajamas or the use of a bed cradle. Patients who describe painful symptoms on walking as comparable to walking on pebbles may benefit from the use of comfortable footwear ( 255 ). ACUPUNCTURE A 10-week uncontrolled study with a follow-up period of 18-52 weeks in patients with diabetes showed significant pain relief after up to 6 courses of traditional Chinese acupuncture without any side effects ( 295 ). A single-blind placebo-controlled randomized trial of acupuncture in 45 subjects with painful DN recently reported an improvement in the outcome measures assessing pain in the acupuncture arm relative to
