Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


refractory painful DPN compared to conventional medical management in 216 randomized patients ( 311 ). 50% reduction in pain relief was observed in 5% in the control group compared to 79% in the electrical SCS group with 6 months follow up. The main limitation of this study was the lack of blinding and potential for placebo effects as an important confounding factor. Nevertheless, this is an interesting finding which should open a new area for further research. Overall complications of electrical SCS include wound infection and lead migration requiring reinsertion. Currently, therefore, this invasive treatment option should be reserved for patients who do not respond to analgesic combination pharmacotherapy. SURGICAL DECOMPRESSION Surgical decompression at the site of anatomic narrowing has been promoted as an alternative treatment for patients with symptomatic DPN. A systematic review of the literature revealed only Class IV studies concerning the utility of this therapeutic approach. Given the current evidence available, this treatment alternative should be considered unproven. Prospective randomized controlled trials with standard definitions and outcome measures are necessary to determine the value of this therapeutic intervention ( 312 , 313 ). The odds ratios for efficacy of neuropathic pain medications are given in Figure 15 . In addition, Table 5 shows the dosages of the different drugs and the commonly encountered side effects. Figure 15. Efficacy analysis of drugs used for the treatment of PDN Table 5. Treatments for Symptomatic Diabetic Polyneuropathy Pain-Dosing and Side Effects View in own window Drug Class Drug Dose Side Effects Tricyclics Amitriptyline 5-75mg nocte Somnolence, dizziness, dry mouth, tachycardia, Nortriptyline 50-150mg nocte constipation, urinary retention, blurred vision Imipramine 25-150mg nocte Confusion SNRIs Duloxetine 30-60mg BD Nausea, somnolence, dizziness, anorexia Anticonvulsants Gabapentin 300-1200mg TDS Somnolence, dizziness, Confusion, ataxia Pregabalin 50-300mg BD Somnolence, confusion, edema, weight gain Carbamazepine/ Oxcarbazepine Up to 200 QDS Dizziness, somnolence, Nausea, leukopenia Opioids* Tramadol 50-100mg BD/QDS Nausea, constipation, HA Somnolence Oxycodone MR Tapentadol ER 10-30mg BD 50mg BD up to 500mg/24hrs Somnolence, nausea, constipation, HA Constipation, nausea, somnolence, dizziness Topical Capsaicin 0.075% QDS Local irritation Lidocaine 0.04% QDS Local irritation * Due to increased risk of adverse outcomes caution is advised if treatment is continued for >3 months. Guidelines for Pharmacotherapy of Painful Neuropathy Figure 16 is a pharmacotherapy algorithm that we propose for the management of painful neuropathy in diabetes. This presumes that the cause of the pain has been attributed to DPN and that
