Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


is a pharmacotherapy algorithm that we propose for the management of painful neuropathy in diabetes. This presumes that the cause of the pain has been attributed to DPN and that all causes masquerading as DPN have been excluded. The identification of neuropathic pain as being focal or diffuse dictates the initial course of action. Focal neuropathic pain is best treated with splinting, steroid injections, and surgery to release entrapment. Diffuse neuropathies are treated with medical therapy and in a majority of cases, need combination therapy. Essential to the DPN evaluation is the identification of the patient’s comorbidities, potential adverse events, and drug interactions. When single agents fail, combinations of drugs with different mechanisms of action should be considered. Comorbidities that accompany pain include depression, anxiety, and sleep disturbances, all of which must be addressed for successful management of pain. Treatment of peripheral neuropathic pain conditions can benefit from further understanding of the impact of pain response and QOL, including activities of daily living (ADLs) and sleep. Patients often benefit from participation in pain management groups and psychological intervention to develop/gain better coping strategies and deal with harmful/disruptive pain-related behaviors. There is currently minimal evidence for the use of combination treatment for painful DPN – hence, most guidelines recommend switching to an alternative agent. There are also few head-to-head comparator trials of commonly used agent evaluating efficacy and safety between drugs. We await the outcome of the much-anticipated OPTION-DM study – head-to-head multicenter, RCT will inform clinicians of the most cost effective monotherapy (amitriptyline, pregabalin and duloxetine) followed by combination therapy for painful DPN ( 314 ). Figure 16. Algorithm for the Management of Symptomatic Diabetic Neuropathy. Non-pharmacological, topical or physical therapies can be useful at any time. SNRIs, serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors; TCA, tricyclic antidepressants. AUTONOMIC NEUROPATHY Introduction The autonomic nervous system (ANS) supplies all organs in the body and consists of an afferent and an efferent system, with long efferents in the vagus (cholinergic) and short postganglionic unmyelinated fibers in the sympathetic system (adrenergic). A third component is the neuropeptidergic system with its neurotransmitters substance P (SP), vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP), and calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP) amongst others. Diabetic autonomic neuropathy (DAN) is a serious and common complication of diabetes but remains among the least recognized and understood. Diabetic autonomic neuropathy (DAN) can cause dysfunction of every part of the body, and has a significant negative impact
