Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


complication of diabetes but remains among the least recognized and understood. Diabetic autonomic neuropathy (DAN) can cause dysfunction of every part of the body, and has a significant negative impact on survival and quality of life ( 315 ). The organ systems that most often exhibit prominent clinical autonomic signs and symptoms in diabetes include the pupils, sweat glands, genitourinary system, gastrointestinal tract, adrenal medullary system, and the cardiovascular system ( Table 6 ). Clinical symptoms generally do not appear until long after the onset of diabetes. However, subclinical autonomic dysfunction can occur within a year of diagnosis in type 2 diabetes patients and within two years in type 1 diabetes patients ( 316 ). Table 6. Clinical Manifestations of Autonomic Neuropathy View in own window Cardiovascular Central: Tachycardia/ Bradycardia Systolic and diastolic dysfunction Decreased exercise tolerance Orthostasis, Orthostatic tachycardia and bradycardia syndrome Sleep apnea Anxiety/ depression Cardiac denervation syndrome Paradoxic supine or nocturnal hypertension Intraoperative and perioperative cardiovascular instability Peripheral: Decreased thermoregulation Decreased sweating Altered blood flow Impaired vasomotion Edema Gastrointestinal Esophageal dysmotility Gastroparesis diabeticorum Diarrhea Constipation Fecal incontinence Genitourinary Erectile dysfunction Retrograde ejaculation Neurogenic bladder and cystopathy Female sexual dysfunction (e.g., loss of vaginal lubrication) Sudomotor Anhidrosis Hyperhidrosis Heat intolerance Gustatory sweating Dry skin Metabolic Hypoglycemia unawareness Hypoglycemia unresponsiveness Pupillary Pupillomotor function impairment (e.g., decreased diameter of dark-adapted pupil) Pseudo Argyll-Robertson pupil Microvascular flow is under the control of the ANS and is regulated by both the central and peripheral components of the ANS. Defective blood flow in the small capillary circulation is found with decreased responsiveness to mental arithmetic, cold pressor, hand grip, and heating ( 317 ). The defect is associated with a reduction in the amplitude of vasomotion ( 318 ) and resembles premature aging ( 277 ). There are differences in the glabrous and hairy skin ( 319 ) and is correctable with antioxidants ( 320 ). The clinical counterpart is a dry cold skin, loss of sweating, and development of fissures and cracks that are portals of entry for organisms leading to infectious ulcers and gangrenes. Silent myocardial infarction, respiratory failure, amputations, and sudden death are hazards for diabetes patients with cardiac autonomic neuropathy ( 321 ). Therefore, it is vitally important to make this diagnosis early so that appropriate intervention can be instituted ( 322 ). Disturbances in the autonomic nervous system may be functional, e.g., gastroparesis with hyperglycemia and ketoacidosis, or
