Diabetic Neuropathies
KEYWORDS: diabetes, neuropathy, pain, patients, dpn, diabetic, nerve, clinical, pubmed, treatment, studies, painful, autonomic, sensory, small


by two or more measures: 3.45 (95% CI 2.66–4.47). Pooled relative risk for 4 studies with CAN defined by a single measure: 1.20 (1.02–1.41). REF: Maser, R. E., Mitchell, B. D., Vinik, A. I., and Freeman, R. Diabetes Care. 2003;26(6):1895-1901. Prevention and Reversibility of Autonomic Neuropathy It has now become clear that strict glycemic control ( 37 ) and a stepwise progressive management of hyperglycemia, lipids, and blood pressure as well as the use of antioxidants ( 326 ) and ACE inhibitors ( 327 ) reduce the odds ratio for autonomic neuropathy to 0.32 ( 328 ). It has also been shown that early mortality is a function of loss of beat-to-beat variability with MI. This can be reduced by 33% with acute administration of insulin ( 329 ). Kendall et al ( 330 ) reported that successful pancreas transplantation improves epinephrine response and normalizes hypoglycemia symptom recognition in patients with long standing diabetes and established autonomic neuropathy. Burger et al ( 331 ) showed that a reversible metabolic component of CAN exists in patients with early CAN. Management of Autonomic Neuropathy POSTURAL HYPOTENSION The syndrome of postural hypotension is posture-related dizziness and syncope. Patients who have Type 2 diabetes mellitus and orthostatic hypotension are hypovolemic and have sympathoadrenal insufficiency; both factors contribute to the pathogenesis of orthostatic hypotension ( 332 ). Postural hypotension in the patient with diabetic autonomic neuropathy can present a difficult management problem. Elevating the blood pressure in the standing position must be balanced against preventing hypertension in the supine position. Supportive Garments: Whenever possible, attempts should be made to increase venous return from the periphery using total body stockings. But leg compression alone is less effective, presumably reflecting the large capacity of the abdomen relative to the legs ( 333 ). Patients should be instructed to put them on while lying down and to not remove them until returning to the supine position. Drug Therapy: Some patients with postural hypotension may benefit from treatment with 9-flurohydrocortisone. Unfortunately, symptoms do not improve until edema occurs, and there is a significant risk of developing congestive heart failure and hypertension. If fluorohydrocortisone does not work satisfactorily, various adrenergic agonists and antagonists may be used ( Table 11 ). Enhancement of ganglionic transmission via the use of pyridostigmine (inhibitor of acetylcholinesterase) improved symptoms and orthostatic hypotension with only modest effects in supine BP for patients with POTS. Similarly, the
