AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


deterioration of rather guidelines, including information that is typically not ultrastructure commences and runs to completion within the presented in protocol papers. For detailed information on amphisomeandtheautolysosomeafterfusionwithalateendo- experimental procedures we refer readers to various protocols some and lysosome (the vacuole in fungi and plants), respec- that have been published elsewhere.28-43,44 Finally, throughout tively (Fig. 1).48 The sequential morphological changes during the guidelines we provide specific cautionary notes, and these the autophagic process can be followed by TEM. The matura- are important to consider when planning experiments and tion from the phagophore through the autolysosome is a interpretingdata;however,thesecautionsarenotmeanttobea dynamicandcontinuousprocess,49and,thus,theclassification deterrent to undertaking any of these experiments or a hin- of compartments into discrete morphological subsets can be drancetodatainterpretation. problematic;therefore,somebasicguidelinesareofferedbelow. Collectively, we propose the following guidelines for mea- Intheprecedingsectionsthe“autophagosome,”the“amphi- suring various aspects of selective and nonselective autophagy some” and the “autolysosome” were terms used to describe or ineukaryotes. indicate 3 basic stages and compartments of autophagy. It is important to make it clear that for instances (which may be many) when we cannot or do not want to differentiate among A. Methodsformonitoringautophagy the autophagosomal, amphisomal and autolysosomal stage we usethegeneralterm“autophagicvacuole”.Intheyeastautoph- 1. Transmissionelectronmicroscopy agy field the term “autophagic vesicle” is used to avoid confu- AutophagywasfirstdetectedbyTEMinthe1950s(reviewedin sionwiththeprimaryvacuole,andbynowthe2termsareused ref. 6). It was originally observed as focal degradation of cyto- in parallel and can be considered synonyms. It is strongly rec- plasmicareasperformedbylysosomes,whichremainsthehall- ommended, however, to use only the term “autophagic vacu- mark of this process. Later analyses revealed that it starts with ole” when referring to macroautophagy in higher eukaryotic the sequestration of portions of the cytoplasm by a special cells. Autophagosomes, also referred to as initial autophagic double-membrane structure (now termed the phagophore), vacuoles (AVi), typicallyhave a double membrane. This struc- which matures into the autophagosome, still bordered by a ture is usually distinctly visible by EM as 2 parallel membrane double membrane. Subsequent fusion events expose the cargo layers (bilayers) separated by a relatively narrower or to the lysosome (or the vacuole in fungi or plants) for enzy- wider electron-translucent cleft, even when applying the sim- maticbreakdown. plest routine EM fixation procedure (Fig. 3A).50,51 This elec- The importance of TEM in autophagy research lies in sev- tron-translucent cleft, however, is less visible or not visible in eralqualities.Itistheonlytoolthatrevealsthemorphologyof freeze-fixedsamples,suggestingitisanartifactofsampleprep- autophagic structures at a resolution in the nm range; shows aration (see ref. 25, 68 and Fig. S3 in ref. 52). In the case of 36
