AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


the necessity of natureofthesestructuresisnotfullyunderstood.Thesemulti- showingonlyaselectivenumberofsectionsinpublications. lamellar structures may indeed be multiple double layers of Wenotehereagainthatforquantitativedataitisnecessary phagophores68 and positive for LC3,69 they could be autolyso- to use proper volumetric analysis rather than just counting somes,70ortheymayformartifactuallyduringfixation.68 numbersofsectionedobjects.Ontheonehand,itmustbekept Specialfeaturesoftheautophagicprocessmaybeclarifiedby in mind that even volumetric morphometry/stereology only immuno-TEM with gold-labeling,71,72 using antibodies, for shows either steady state levels, or a snapshot in a changing example,tocargoproteinsofcytoplasmicoriginandtoLC3to dynamic process. Such data by themselves are not informative verify the autophagic nature of the compartment. LC3 immu- regarding autophagic flux, unless carried out over multiple nogold labeling also makes it possible to detect novel degrada- time points. Alternatively, investigation in the presence and tive organelles within autophagy compartments. This is the absence of flux inhibitors can reveal the dynamic changes in casewiththeautophagoproteasome73wherecostainingforLC3 various stages of the autophagic process.12,21,78,79,42 On the and ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) antigens occurs. The other hand, if the turnover of autolysosomes is very rapid, a autophagoproteasome consists of single-, double-, or multiple- low number/volume will not necessarily be an accurate reflec- membrane LC3-positive autophagosomes costaining for spe- tion of low autophagic activity. However, quantitative analyses cificcomponentsoftheUPS.Itmaybethatarichmulti-enzy- indicatethatautophagosomevolumeinmanycasesdoescorre- matic (both autophagic and UPS) activity takes place within late with the rates of protein degradation.80-82 One potential theseorganellesinsteadofbeingsegregatedwithindifferentcell compromiseistoperformwholecellquantificationofautopha- domains. gosomes using fluorescence methods, with qualitative verifica- Although labeling of LC3 can be difficult, an increasing tionbyTEM,83toshowthatthechanges influorescentpuncta number of commercial antibodies are becoming available, reflectcorrespondingchangesinautophagicstructures. among them good ones to visualize the GFP moiety of GFP- One additional caveat with TEM, and to some extent with LC3reporterconstructs.74Itisimportanttokeepinmindthat confocalfluorescencemicroscopy,isthattheanalysisofasingle LC3canbeassociatedwithnonautophagicstructures(seeXen- planewithinacellcanbemisleadingandmaymaketheidenti- ophagy, and Noncanonical use of autophagy-related proteins). ficationofautophagicstructuresdifficult.Confocalmicroscopy LC3 is involved in specialized forms of endocytosis like LC3- and fluorescence microscopy with deconvolution software (or associated phagocytosis. In addition, LC3 can decorate vesicles with much more work, 3-dimensional TEM) can be used to dedicated to exocytosis in nonconventional secretion systems generate multiple/serial sectionsof thesame cell toreducethis (reviewed in ref. 75,76). Antibodies against an abundant cyto- concern;however,inmanycaseswherethereissufficientstruc- solic protein willresult in high labeling all over the cytoplasm; tural resolution, analysis of a single plane in a relatively large however, organelle markers work well. Because there are very cell population can suffice given practical limitations. Newer few characterized proteins that remain associated with the EM technologies, including focused ion beam dual-beam EM, completed autophagosome, the choices for confirmation of its should make it much easier to apply three-dimensional analy- autophagic nature are limited. Furthermore, autophagosome- ses.Anadditionalmethodologytoassessautophagosomeaccu- associated proteins
