AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


data at different time points, as lysosomes. In subsequent stages of the autophagic process the the autophagosome/autolysosome ratio varies in time in a cell fusion of the autophagosome with an endosome and a lysosome context-dependentfashion,dependingontheirclearanceactiv- results in increased density of IMPs in the membrane of the ity.Itmayalsobenecessarytodistinguishautolysosomesfrom formed autophagic compartments (amphisomes, autolysosomes; telolysosomes/latesecondarylysosomes(theformerareactively Fig. 5C).6,25,93-96,103,104 Autolysosomes are delimited by a single engagedindegradation,whereasthelatterhavereachedanend membrane because, in addition to the engulfed material, the pointinthebreakdownoflumenal contents)becausethelyso- innermembraneisalsodegradedbythelyticenzymes.Similarly, some number generally increases when autophagy is induced. the limiting membrane of autophagic bodies in yeast (and AUTOPHAGY 39 Figure5.Differentautophagicvacuolesobservedafterfreezefracturinginculturedosteosarcomacellsaftertreatmentwiththeautophagyinducervoacamine.101(A) Earlyautophagosomedelimitedbyadoublemembrane.(B)Innermonolayerofanautophagosomemembranedeprivedofproteinparticles.(C)Autolysosomedelimited byasinglemembranerichinproteinparticles.Inthecross-fracturedportion(ontheright)theprofileofthesinglemembraneandtheinnerdigestedmaterialareeasily visible.ImagesprovidedbyS.Meschini,M.CondelloandA.Giuseppe. presumably plants) is also quickly broken down under normal the tissue. For instance, if 95% of a tumor is necrotic, TEM conditions. Autophagic bodies can be stabilized, however, by the analysis of the necrotic core may not be informative, and if addition of phenylmethylsulfonylfluoride (PMSF) or genetically the sampling is from the viable rim, this needs to be specified by the deletion of the yeast PEP4 gene (see The Cvt pathway, when reported. Clearly this introduces the potential for sub- mitophagy, pexophagy, piecemeal microautophagy of the nucleus jectivity because reviewers of a paper cannot request multiple and late nucleophagy in yeast and filamentous fungi.). Thus, images with a careful statistical analysis with these types of another method to consider for monitoring autophagy in yeast samples. In addition, ex vivo samples are not typically ran- (andpotentiallyinplants)istocountautophagicbodiesbyTEM domized during processing, further complicating the possibil- usingatleast2timepoints.105Theadvantageofthisapproachis ity of valid statistical analyses. Ex vivo tissue should be fixed that it can provide accurate information on flux even when the immediately and systematically across samples to avoid autophagosomes are abnormally small.106,107 Thus, although a changes in autophagy that may occur simply due to the high frequency of “abnormal” structures presents a challenge, elapsed time ex vivo. It is recommended that for tissue sam- TEMisstillveryhelpfulinanalyzingautophagy. ples, perfusion fixation should be used when possible. For Cautionary notes: Despite the introduction of many new yeast, rapid freezing techniques such as high pressure freezing methodsTEMmaintainsitsspecialroleinautophagyresearch. followed by freeze substitution (i.e., dehydration at low tem- Thereare,however,difficultiesinutilizingTEM.Itisrelatively perature) may be particularly useful. time consuming, and needs technical expertise to ensure Quantification of autophagy by TEM morphometry has proper handling of samples in all stages of preparation from been rather controversial, and unreliable procedures still fixationtosectioningandstaining(contrasting).Afterallthese continue to be used. For the principles of reliable quantifi- criteriaaremet,wefacethemostimportantproblemofproper cation and to avoid misleading results, excellent reviews
