AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


real growth of its gosomes) between the 2 membranes of the phagocytic size in a given cytoplasmic volume, or from the decrease of vacuoles. In addition, engulfed apoptotic bodies usually the cytoplasmic volume itself. To avoid this so-called “refer- have a larger average size than autophagosomes.134,135 The ence trap,” the reference space volume can be determined problem of heterophagic elements interfering with the iden- by different methods.112,117 If different magnifications are tification of autophagic ones is most prominent in cell types used for measuring the autophagic vacuoles and the cyto- with particularly intense heterophagic activity (such as mac- plasm (which may be practical when autophagy is less rophages, and amoeboid or ciliate protists). Special atten- intense) correction factors should always be used. tion has to be paid to this problem in cell cultures or in In some cases, it may be prudent to employ tomo- vivo treatments (e.g., with toxic or chemotherapeutic graphic reconstructions of the TEM images to confirm that agents) causing extensive apoptosis. the autophagic compartments are spherical and are not The most common organelles confused with autophagic being confused with interdigitations observed between vacuoles are mitochondria, ER, endosomes, and also neighboring cells, endomembrane cisternae or damaged (depending on their structure) plastids in plants. Due to the mitochondria with similar appearance in thin-sections (e.g., cisternal structure of the ER, double-membrane-like struc- see ref. 118), but this is obviously a time-consuming tures surrounding mitochondria or other organelles are approach requiring sophisticated equipment. In addition, often observed after sectioning,136 but these can also corre- interpretation of tomographic images can be problematic. spond to cisternae of the ER coming into and out of the For example, starvation-induced autophagosomes should section plane.50 If there are ribosomes associated with these contain cytoplasm (i.e., cytosol and possibly organelles), membranes they can help in distinguishing them from the but autophagosome-related structures involved in specific ribosome-free double-membrane of the phagophore and types of autophagy should show the selective cytoplasmic autophagosome. Observation of a mixture of early and late target, but may be relatively devoid of bulk cytoplasm. autophagic vacuoles that is modulated by the time point of Such processes include selective peroxisome or mitochon- collection and/or brief pulses of bafilomycin A (a vacuolar- C dria degradation (pexophagy or mitophagy, respec- type H -ATPase [V-ATPase] inhibitor) to trap the cargo in tively),119,120 targeted degradation of pathogenic microbes a recognizable early state42 increases the confidence that an (xenophagy),121-126
