AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


(pexophagy or mitophagy, respec- type H -ATPase [V-ATPase] inhibitor) to trap the cargo in tively),119,120 targeted degradation of pathogenic microbes a recognizable early state42 increases the confidence that an (xenophagy),121-126 a combination of xenophagy and stress- autophagic process is being observed. In these cases, how- induced mitophagy,127 as well as the yeast biosynthetic ever, the possibility that feedback activation of sequestration cytoplasm-to-vacuole targeting (Cvt) pathway.128 Further- gets involved in the autophagic process has to be carefully more, some pathogenic microbes express membrane-dis- considered. To minimize the impact of errors, exact catego- rupting factors during infection (e.g., phospholipases) that rization of autophagic elements should be applied. Efforts disrupt the normal double-membrane architecture of auto- should be made to clarify the nature of questionable struc- phagosomes.129 It is not even clear if the sequestering com- tures by extensive preliminary comparison in many test partments used for specific organelle degradation or areas. Elements that still remain questionable should be cat- xenophagy should be termed autophagosomes or if alter- egorized into special groups and measured separately. nate terms such as pexophagosome,130 mitophagosome and Should their later identification become possible, they can xenophagosome should be used, even though the mem- be added to the proper category or, if not, kept separate. brane and mechanisms involved in their formation may be For nonspecialists it can be particularly difficult to distin- identical to those for starvation-induced autophagosomes; guish among amphisomes, autolysosomes and lysosomes, for example, the double-membrane vesicle of the Cvt path- whichareallsingle-membranecompartmentscontainingmore way is referred to as a Cvt vesicle.131 or less degraded material. Therefore, we suggest in general to The confusion of heterophagic structures with autophagic measureautophagosomesasaseparatecategoryforastart,and ones is a major source of misinterpretation. A prominent to compile another category of degradative compartments example of this is related to apoptosis. Apoptotic bodies (including amphisomes, autolysosomes and lysosomes). All of from neighboring cells are readily phagocytosed by surviv- these compartments increase in quantity upon true autophagy ing cells of the same tissue.132,133 Immediately after phago- induction; however, in pathological states, it may be informa- cytic uptake of apoptotic bodies, phagosomes may have tivetodiscriminateamongthesedifferentformsofdegradative double limiting membranes. The inner one is the plasma compartments, which may be differentially affected by disease membrane of the apoptotic body and the outer one is that factors. of the phagocytizing cell. The early heterophagic vacuole In yeast, it is convenient to identify autophagic bodies formed in this way may appear similar
