AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


the outer one is that factors. of the phagocytizing cell. The early heterophagic vacuole In yeast, it is convenient to identify autophagic bodies formed in this way may appear similar to an autophago- that reside within the vacuole lumen, and to quantify some or, in a later stage, an early autolysosome in that it them as an alternative to the direct examination of autopha- contains recognizable or identifiable cytoplasmic material. A gosomes. However, it is important to keep in mind that it major difference, however, is that the surrounding mem- may not be possible to distinguish between autophagic bod- branes are the thicker plasma membrane type, rather than ies that are derived from the fusion of autophagosomes the thinner sequestration membrane type (9–10 nm, versus with the vacuole, and the single-membrane vesicles that are 7–8 nm, respectively).109 A good feature to distinguish generated during microautophagy-like processes such as between autophagosomes and double plasma membrane- micropexophagy and micromitophagy. AUTOPHAGY 41 Conclusion: EM is an extremely informative and powerful distinguish it from the yeast protein and from the GABARAP methodformonitoringautophagyandremainstheonlytechnique subfamily. LC3, like the other Atg8 homologs, is initially syn- that shows autophagy in its complex cellular environment with thesized in an unprocessed form, proLC3, which is converted subcellularresolution.ThecornerstoneofsuccessfullyusingTEM intoaproteolyticallyprocessedformlackingaminoacidsfrom istheproperidentificationofautophagicstructures,whichisalso theCterminus,LC3-I,andisfinallymodifiedintothePE-con- the prerequisite to get reliable quantitative results by EM mor- jugated form, LC3-II (Fig. 6). Atg8–PE/LC3-II is the onlypro- phometry.EMisbestusedincombinationwithothermethodsto tein marker that is reliably associated with completed ensure the complex and holistic approach that is becoming autophagosomes,butisalsolocalizedtophagophores.Inyeast, increasinglynecessaryforfurtherprogressinautophagyresearch. Atg8 amounts increase at least 10-fold when autophagy is induced.148 In mammalian cells, however, the total levels of LC3donotnecessarilychangeinapredictablemanner,asthere 2. Atg8/LC3detectionandquantification may be increases in the conversion of LC3-I to LC3-II, or a Atg8/LC3isthemostwidelymonitoredautophagy-relatedpro- decreaseinLC3-IIrelativetoLC3-IifdegradationofLC3-IIvia tein.Inthissectionwedescribemultipleassaysthatutilizethis lysosomalturnoverisparticularlyrapid(thiscanalsobeacon- protein,separatingthedescriptionsintoseveralsubsectionsfor cern in yeast with regard to vacuolar turnover of Atg8–PE). easeofdiscussion. Both of these events can be seen sequentially in several cell types as a response to total nutrient and serum starvation. In a. Westernblottingandubiquitin-likeproteinconjugation cellsofneuronaloriginahighratioofLC3-ItoLC3-IIisacom- systems mon finding.149 For instance, SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cell The Atg8/LC3 protein is a ubiquitin-like protein that can be linesdisplayonlyaslightincreaseofLC3-IIafternutrientdep- conjugated to PE (and possibly to phosphatidylserine137). In rivation,whereasLC3-Iisclearlyreduced.Thisislikelyrelated yeast and several other organisms, the conjugated form is to a high basal autophagic flux, as suggested by the higher referred to as Atg8–PE. The mammalian homologs of Atg8 increase in LC3-II when cells are treated with NH Cl,150,151 constitute a family of proteins subdivided in 2 major subfami-
