AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


higher referred to as Atg8–PE. The mammalian homologs of Atg8 increase in LC3-II when cells are treated with NH Cl,150,151 constitute a family of proteins subdivided in 2 major subfami- although cell-specific differences in transcriptional regulation lies: MAP1LC3/LC3 and GABARAP. The former consists of ofLC3mayalsoplayarole.Infactstimuliorstressthatinhibit LC3A, B, B2 and C, whereas the latter family includes transcription or translation of LC3 might actually be misinter- GABARAP, GABARAPL1 and GABARAPL2/GATE-16.138 preted as inhibitionof autophagy. Importantly, in braintissue, After cleavage of the precursor protein mostly by the cysteine LC3-IismuchmoreabundantthanLC3-IIandthelatterform protease ATG4B,139,140 the nonlipidated and lipidated forms is most easily discernable in enriched fractions of autophago- are usually referred to respectively as LC3-I and LC3-II, or somes, autolysosomes and ER, and may be more difficult to GABARAP and GABARAP–PE, etc. The PE-conjugated form detect in crude homogenate or cytosol.152 Indeed, when brain ofAtg8/LC3,althoughlargerinmass,showsfaster electropho- crude homogenate is run in parallel to a crude liver fraction, reticmobilityinSDS-PAGEgels,probablyasaconsequenceof bothLC3-IandLC3-IIareobservedintheliver,butonlyLC3-I increased hydrophobicity. The positions of both Atg8/LC3-I may be discernible in brain homogenate (L. Toker and G. (approximately 16–18 kDa) and Atg8–PE/LC3-II (approxi- Agam, personal communication), depending on the LC3 anti- mately14–16kDa)shouldbeindicatedonwesternblotswhen- body used.153 In studies of the brain, immunoblot analysis of ever both are detectable. The differences among the LC3 the membrane and cytosol fraction from a cell lysate, upon proteins with regard to function and tissue-specific expression appropriate loading of samples to achieve quantifiable and are not known. Therefore, it is important to indicate the iso- comparativesignals,canbeusefultomeasureLC3isoforms. formbeinganalyzedjustasitisfortheGABARAPsubfamily. The pattern of LC3-I to LC3-II conversion seems not only The mammalian Atg8 homologs share from 29% to 94% to be cell specific, but also related to the kind of stress to sequence identity with the yeast protein and have all, apart which cells are subjected. For example, SH-SY5Y cells display fromGABARAPL3,beendemonstratedtobeinvolvedinauto- a strong increase of LC3-II when treated with the mitochon- phagosome biogenesis.141 The LC3 proteins are involved in drial uncoupler CCCP, a well-known inducer of mitophagy phagophore formation, with participation of GABARAP sub- (although it has also been reported that CCCP may actually familymembersinlaterstagesofautophagosomeformation,in inhibit mitophagy154). Thus, neither assessment of LC3-I con- particular phagophore elongation and closure.142 Some evi- sumptionnortheevaluationofLC3-IIlevelswouldnecessarily dence, however, suggests that at least in certain cell types the reveal a slight induction of autophagy (e.g., by rapamycin). LC3subfamilymaybedispensableforbulkautophagicseques- Also,thereisnotalwaysaclearprecursor/productrelationship trationofcytosolicproteins,whereastheGABARAPsubfamily between LC3-I and LC3-II, because the conversion of the for- isabsolutelyrequired.143Duetouniquefeaturesintheirmolec- mer to the latter is cell type-specific and dependent on the
