AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


of autophagy (e.g., by rapamycin). LC3subfamilymaybedispensableforbulkautophagicseques- Also,thereisnotalwaysaclearprecursor/productrelationship trationofcytosolicproteins,whereastheGABARAPsubfamily between LC3-I and LC3-II, because the conversion of the for- isabsolutelyrequired.143Duetouniquefeaturesintheirmolec- mer to the latter is cell type-specific and dependent on the ularsurfacechargedistribution,144emergingevidenceindicates treatment used to induce autophagy. Accumulation of LC3-II thatLC3andGABARAPproteinsmaybeinvolvedinrecogniz- can be obtained by interrupting the autophagosome-lysosome ingdistinctsetsofcargoesforselectiveautophagy.145-147Never- fusion step (e.g., by depolymerizing acetylated microtubules theless, in most published studies, LC3 has been the primary with vinblastine), by inhibiting the ATP2A/SERCA Ca2C Atg8 homolog examined in mammalian cells and the one that pump, by specifically inhibiting the V-ATPase with bafilomy- is typically characterized as an autophagosome marker per se. cin A 155-157 or by raising the lysosomal pH by the addition of Notethatalthoughthisproteinisreferredtoas“Atg8”inmany chloroquine,158,159 although some of these treatments may other systems, we primarily refer to it here as LC3 to increase autophagosome numbers by disrupting the lysosome- 42 D.J.KLIONSKYETAL. dependentactivationofMTOR(mechanistictargetofrapamy- inhibiting lysosome-mediated proteolysis (e.g., with a cysteine cin [serine/threonine kinase] complex 1 [MTORC1; note that protease inhibitor such as E-64d, the aspartic protease inhibi- the original term “mTOR” was named to distinguish the tor pepstatin A, the cysteine, serine and threonine protease “mammalian” target of rapamycin from the yeast proteins160], inhibitor leupeptin or treatment with bafilomycin A , NH Cl 1 4 a major suppressor of autophagy induction),161,162 or by or chloroquine158,163,164). Western blotting can be used to Figure6.(Forfigurecaptionseepage43) AUTOPHAGY 43 monitor changes in LC3 amounts (Fig. 6);26,165 however, even D. Sulzer, unpublished results; E.-L. Eskelinen, unpublished if the total amount of LC3 does increase, the magnitude of the results).Thisisparticularlyevidentinthosecellsthatshowlow response is generally less than that documented in yeast. It is levels of LC3-II (based on western blotting) because of an worth noting that since the conjugated forms of the intenseautophagicfluxthatconsumesthisprotein,175orincell GABARAP subfamily members are usually undetectable with- lines having highlevelsof LC3-II that aretumor-derived, such out induction of autophagy in mammalian and other verte- asMDA-MB-231.174Conversely,withoutcarefulquantification brate cells,166,167 these proteins might be more suitable than thedetectableformationofLC3-IIisnotsufficientevidencefor LC3 to study and quantify subtle changes in autophagy autophagy. For example, homozygous deletion of Becn1 does induction. not prevent the formation of LC3-II in embryonic stem cells In most organisms, Atg8/LC3 is initially synthesized with a even though autophagy is substantially reduced, whereas dele- C-terminal extension that is removed by the Atg4 protease. tion of Atg5 results in the complete absence of LC3-II (see Accordingly,itispossibletousethisprocessingeventtomoni- Fig.5Aandsupplementaldatainref.176).Thesameistruefor torAtg4activity.Forexample,whenGFPisfusedattheCter- the generation of Atg8–PE in yeast in the absence of VPS30/ minus of Atg8 (Atg8-GFP), the
