AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


may not display equivalent changes in all organisms under thepresenceofgeneralproteaseinhibitors(C.Isidoro,personal autophagy-inducing conditions, and it should not be communication; see also Human).197 Caveats regarding detec- assumed that LC3B is the optimal protein to monitor.208 A tionofLC3bywesternblottinghavebeencoveredinareview.26 key technical consideration is that the isoforms may exhibit Forexample,PVDF membranes may result inastrongerLC3- different specificities for antisera or antibodies. Thus, it is II retention than nitrocellulose membranes, possibly due to a highly recommended that investigators report exactly the higheraffinityforhydrophobicproteins(Fig.6B;J.Kovsanand source and catalog number of the antibodies used to detect A. Rudich, personal communication), and Triton X-100 may LC3 as this might help avoid discrepancies between studies. not efficiently solubilize LC3-II insomesystems.198Heatingin The commercialized anti-LC3B antibodies also recognize mayassistinthedetectionofthelipidatedformofthisprotein. sequence homology. It is important to note that LC3C AUTOPHAGY 45 possesses in its primary amino acid sequence the DYKD personalcommunication).Similarly,ureacombinedwithprior motif that is recognized with a high affinity by anti-FLAG treatment of the samples with (or without) phospholipase D antibodies. Thus, the standard anti-FLAG M2 antibody can (that will remove the PE moiety) can often resolve the ATG8 detect and immunoprecipitate overexpressed LC3C, and species in plants.214,215 It is also possible to label cells with caution has to be taken in experiments using FLAG-tagged radioactiveethanolamine,followedbyautoradiographytoiden- proteins (M. Biard-Piechaczyk and L. Espert, personal com- tify Atg8–PE, and a C-terminal peptide can be analyzed by munication). Note that according to Ensembl there is no massspectrometrytoidentifythelipidmodificationattheter- LC3C in mouse or rat. minalglycineresidue.Specialtreatmentsarenotneededforthe In addition, it is important to keep in mind the other sub- separationofmammalianLC3-IfromLC3-II. family of Atg8 proteins, the GABARAP subfamily (see Sixth, it is important to keep in mind that ATG8, and to a above).141,209 Certain types of mitophagy induced by BNIP3L/ lesser extent LC3, undergoes substantial transcriptional and NIX are highly dependent on GABARAP and less dependent posttranscriptional regulation. Accordingly, to obtain an accu- onLC3proteins.210,211Furthermore,commercialantibodiesfor rate interpretation of Atg8/LC3 protein levels it is also neces- GABARAPL1 also recognize GABARAP,138,143 which might sary to monitor the mRNA levels. Without analyzing the lead to misinterpretation of experiments, in particular those correspondingmRNAitisnotpossibletodiscriminatebetween using immunohistochemical techniques. Sometimes the prob- changesthatarestrictlyreflectedinalteredamountsofprotein lem with cross-reactivity of the anti-GABARAPL1 antibody versus those that are due to changes in transcription (e.g., the canbeovercomewhenanalyzingtheseproteinsbywesternblot rateoftranscription,orthestabilityofthemessage).Forexam- because the isoforms can be resolved during SDS-PAGE using ple, in cells treated with the calcium ionophore A23187 or the high concentration (15%) gels, as GABARAP migrates faster ERcalciumpump blocker thapsigargin, anobviouscorrelation than GABARAPL1 (M. Boyer-Guittaut, personal communica- is
