AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


ple, in cells treated with the calcium ionophore A23187 or the high concentration (15%) gels, as GABARAP migrates faster ERcalciumpump blocker thapsigargin, anobviouscorrelation than GABARAPL1 (M. Boyer-Guittaut, personal communica- is found between the time-dependent increases in LC3B-I and tion; also see Fig. S4 in ref. 143). Because GABARAP and LC3B-IIproteinlevels, aswellaswiththeobservedincrease in GABARAPL1 can both be proteolytically processed and lipi- LC3BmRNAlevels.216Clinically,inhumanadiposetissue,pro- dated, generating GABARAP-I or GABARAPL1-I and tein and mRNA levels of LC3 in omental fat are similarly ele- GABARAP-II or GABARAPL1-II, respectively, this may lead vatedinobesecomparedtoleanindividuals.217 to a misassignment of the different bands. As soon as highly Seventh,LC3-Icanbefullydegradedbythe20Sproteasome specific antibodies that are able to discriminate between or, more problematically, processed to a form appearing equal GABARAP and GABARAPL1 become available, we strongly insizetoLC3-IIonawesternblot(LC3-T);LC3-Twasidenti- advise their use; until then, we advise caution in interpreting fied in HeLa cells and is devoid of the ubiquitin conjugation resultsbasedonthedetectionoftheseproteinsbywesternblot. domain,thuslackingitsadaptorfunctionforautophagy.218 Antibody specificity can be assessed after complete inhibition Eighth, a general issue when working with cell lines is that ofGABARAP(oranyotherAtg8familyprotein)expressionby we recommend that validation be performed to verify the cell RNAinterference.143,167Ingeneral,weadvisecautioninchoos- line(s) being used, and to verify the presence of genetic altera- ing antibodies for western blotting and immunofluorescence tions as appropriate. Depending on the goal (e.g., to indicate experiments and in interpreting results based on stated affini- generalapplicabilityofaparticulartreatment)itmaybeimpor- tiesofantibodiesunlessthesehavebeenclearlydetermined.As tant to use more than one cell line to confirm the results. It is with any western blot, proper methods of quantification must alsocriticaltotestformycoplasmabecausethepresenceofthis beused,which are,unfortunately,oftennot welldisseminated; contaminant can significantly alter the results with regard to readers are referred to an excellent paper on this subject (see any autophagic response. For these reasons, we also recom- ref. 212). Unlike the other members of the GABARAP family, mend the use of low passage numbers for nonprimary cells or almost no information is available on GABARAPL3, perhaps celllines(nomorethan40passagesor6monthsafterthawing). because it is not yet possible to differentiate between GABA- Finally, we would like to point out that one general issue RAPL1 and GABARAPL3 proteins, which have 94% identity. with regard to any assay is that experimental manipulation As stated by the laboratory that described the cloning of the could introduce some type of stress—for example, mechanical human GABARAPL1 and GABARAPL3 genes,209 their expres- stressduetolysis,temperaturestressduetoheatingorcooling sion patterns are apparently identical. It is worth noting that a sample, or oxidative stress on a microscope slide, which GABARAPL3istheonlygeneoftheGABARAPsubfamilythat could lead to potential artifacts including the induction of seems to
