AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


are apparently identical. It is worth noting that a sample, or oxidative stress on a microscope slide, which GABARAPL3istheonlygeneoftheGABARAPsubfamilythat could lead to potential artifacts including the induction of seems to lack an ortholog in mice.209 GABARAPL3 might autophagy—even maintaining cells in higher than physiologi- thereforebeconsideredasapseudogenewithoutanintronthat cally normal oxygen levels can bea stress condition.219 Special is derived from GABARAPL1. Hence, until new data are pub- care should be taken with cells in suspension, as the stress lished, GABARAPL3 should not be considered as the fourth resultingfromcentrifugationcaninduceautophagy.Thispoint memberoftheGABARAPfamily. is not intended to limit the use of any specific methodology, Fifth, in non-mammalian species, the discrimination of butrathertonotethattherearenoperfectassays.Therefore,it Atg8–PE from the nonlipidated form can be complicated by is important to verify that the positive (e.g., treatment with theirnearlyidenticalSDS-PAGEmobilitiesandthepresenceof rapamycin,torin1orotherinducers)andnegative(e.g.,inhibi- multiple isoforms (e.g., there are 9 in Arabidopsis). In yeast, it tor treatment) controls behave as expected in any assays being ispossibletoresolveAtg8(thenonlipidatedform)fromAtg8– utilized. Similarly, plasmid transfection or nucleofection can PE by including 6 M urea in the SDS-PAGE separating gel,213 resultinthepotentinductionofautophagy(basedonincreases or by using a 15% resolving gel without urea (F. Reggiori, inLC3-IIorSQSTM1/p62degradation).Insomecelltypes,the 46 D.J.KLIONSKYETAL. amount of autophagy induced by transfection of a control absence of an accompanying flux of cytosolic bulk cargo.223 empty vector may be so high that it is virtually impossible to The relevant parameter in LC3 assays is the difference in the examine the effect of enforced gene expression on autophagy amountofLC3-IIinthepresenceandabsenceofsaturatinglev- (B. Levine, personal communication). It is thus advisable to els of inhibitors, which can be used to examine the transit of performtimecourseexperimentstodeterminewhenthetrans- LC3-II through the autophagic pathway; if flux is occurring, fectioneffectreturnstoacceptablylowlevelsandtouseappro- the amount of LC3-II will be higher in the presence of the priate time-matched transfection controls (see also the inhibitor.174 Lysosomal degradation can be prevented through discussion in GFP-Atg8/LC3 fluorescence microscopy). This the use of protease inhibitors (e.g., pepstatin A, leupeptin and effect is generally not observed with siRNA transfection; how- E-64d), compounds that neutralize the lysosomal pH such as ever, it is an issue for plasmid expression constructs including bafilomycin A , chloroquine or NH Cl,16,149,158,164,224,225 or by 1 4 those for shRNA and for viral delivery systems. The use of treatmentwithagentsthatblockthefusionofautophagosomes endotoxin-freeDNAreduces,butdoesnoteliminate,thisprob- with lysosomes (note that bafilomycin A will ultimately cause lem. In many cells the cationic polymers used for DNA trans- afusionblockaswellasneutralizethepH,156buttheinhibition fection, such as liposomes and polyplex, induce large of fusion may be due to a block in ATP2A/SERCA activ- tubulovesicular autophagosomes
