AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


however, it must be kept in mind that there branes.IfthetreatmentbyitselfincreasesLC3-IIlevels,butthe aremultipleLC3isoforms,thereisasecondfamilyofmamma- treatment plus bafilomycin A does not increase LC3-II levels lian Atg8-like proteins (GABARAPs), and antibody affinity compared to bafilomycin A alone, this may indicate that the (for LC3-I versus LC3-II) and specificity (for example, for treatment induced a partial block in autophagic flux. Thus, a LC3A versus LC3B) must be considered and/or determined. treatment condition increasing LC3-II on its own that has no autophagic flux.Finally,even when flux assays are carried out, pared to treatment alone may suggest a complete block in there is a problem with the limited dynamic range of LC3 autophagy at the terminal stages.231 This procedure has been immunoblots; accordingly, this method should not be used by validated with several autophagy modulators.232 With each of itselftoanalyzechangesinautophagy. these techniques, it is essential to avoid assay saturation. The durationof thebafilomycin A treatment(oranyotherinhibi- b. TurnoverofLC3-II/Atg8–PE tor of autophagic flux such as chloroquine) needs to be rela- Autophagic flux is often inferred on the basis of LC3-II turn- tively short (1–4 h)233 to allow comparisons of the amount of over,measuredbywesternblot(Fig.6C)174inthepresenceand LC3thatislysosomallydegradedoveragiventimeframeunder absence of lysosomal, or vacuolar degradation. However, it one treatment condition to another treatment condition. A shouldbecautionedthatsuchLC3assaysaremerelyindicative dose-curveandtime-coursestandardizationfortheuseofauto- ofautophagic“carrierflux”,notofactualautophagiccargo/sub- phagicfluxinhibitorsisrequiredfortheinitialoptimizationof strateflux.Ithas,infact,beenobservedthatinrathepatocytes, the conditions to detect LC3-II accumulation and avoid non- an autophagic-lysosomal flux of LC3-II can take place in the specific or secondary effects. By using a rapid screening AUTOPHAGY 47 approach, such as a colorimetric-based platform method,234 it known whether it is generally applicable to other cell types. ispossibletomonitoralongtimeframeforautolysosomeaccu- Indeed, a soluble form of LC3-II (i.e., LC3-IIs) is not observed mulation,whichcloselyassociateswithautophagyefficiency.235 in many standard cell types including HeLa, HEK 293 and Positive control experiments using treatment with known PC12.Inaddition,thesameconcernsapplyregardingdetection autophagy inducers, along with bafilomycin A versus vehicle, of LC3-I by western blotting. It should be noted that the LC3- are important to demonstrate the utility of this approach in IIs/LC3-I ratio must be analyzed using the cytosolic fractions each experimental context. The same type of assaymonitoring ratherthanthetotalhomogenates.Furthermore,thesamecav- the turnover of Atg8–PE can be used to monitor flux in yeast, eatsmentionedaboveregardingtheuseofLC3forqualitatively bycomparingtheamountofAtg8presentinawild-typeversus monitoring autophagy also apply to the use of this marker for apep4Dstrainfollowingautophagyinduction;236however,itis evaluatingflux. important to be aware that the PEP4 knockout can influence The use of a radioactive pulse-chase analysis, which yeastcellphysiology.PMSF,whichinhibitstheactivityofPrb1, assesses complete autophagic flux, provides an alternative to canalsobeusedtoblockAtg8–PEturnover. lysosomal protease inhibitors,148 although such inhibitors Anadditionalmethodologyformonitoringautophagyrelies should still be used to verify that degradation is
