AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


radioactive pulse-chase analysis, which yeastcellphysiology.PMSF,whichinhibitstheactivityofPrb1, assesses complete autophagic flux, provides an alternative to canalsobeusedtoblockAtg8–PEturnover. lysosomal protease inhibitors,148 although such inhibitors Anadditionalmethodologyformonitoringautophagyrelies should still be used to verify that degradation is lysosome- on the observation that in some cell types a subpopulation of dependent. In addition, drugs must be used at concentrations LC3-II exists in a cytosolic form (LC3-IIs).237-239 The amount and for time spans that are effective in inhibiting fusion or appears to correlate with changes in autophagy and may pro- techniques may not be practical in all cell types or in tissues vide a more accurate measure of autophagic flux than ratios from whole organisms where the use of protease inhibitors is basedonthetotallevelofLC3-II.239Thevalidityofthismethod problematic, and where pulse labeling requires artificial short- has been demonstrated by comparing autophagic proteolytic term culture conditions that may induce autophagy. Another flux in rat hepatocytes, hepatoma cells and myoblasts. One concern when monitoring flux via LC3-II turnover may be advantageofthis approachisthatitdoesnot require thepres- seen in the case of a partial autophagy block; in this situation, ence of autophagic or lysosomal inhibitors to block the degra- agents that disrupt autophagy (e.g., bafilomycin A ) will still dationofLC3-II. result in an increase in LC3-II. Thus, care is needed in inter- Due to the advances in time-lapse fluorescence microscopy pretation. For characterizing new autophagy modulators, it is and the development of photoswitchable fluorescent proteins, ideal to test autophagic flux at early (e.g., 4 h) and late (e.g., autophagicfluxcanalsobemonitoredbyassessingthehalf-life 24 h) time-points, since in certain instances, such as with cal- oftheLC3protein240post-photoactivationorbyquantitatively cium phosphate precipitates, a compound may increase or measuring the autophagosomal pool size and its transition decrease flux at these 2 time points, respectively.233 Moreover, time.241 These approaches deliver invaluable information on it is important to consider assaying autophagy modulators in thekineticsofthesystemandthetimerequiredtoclearacom- a long-term response in order to further understand their plete autophagosomal pool. Nonetheless, care must be taken effects. Finally, many of the chemicals used to inhibit auto- for this type of analysis as changes in translational/transcrip- phagy, such as bafilomycin A , NH Cl (see Autophagy inhibi- 1 4 tionalregulationofLC3mightalsoaffectthereadout. tors and inducers) or chloroquine, also directly inhibit the Finally,autophagicfluxcanbemonitoredbasedontheturn- endocytosis/uncoating of viruses (D.R. Smith, personal com- over of LC3-II, by utilizing a luminescence-based assay. For munication), and other endocytic events requiring low pH, as example, a reporter assay based on the degradation of Renilla well as exit from the Golgi (S. Tooze, personal communica-
