AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


For munication), and other endocytic events requiring low pH, as example, a reporter assay based on the degradation of Renilla well as exit from the Golgi (S. Tooze, personal communica- reniformis luciferase (Rluc)-LC3 fusion proteins is well suited tion). As such, agents that neutralize endosomal compart- for screening compounds affecting autophagic flux.242 In this ments should be used only with extreme caution in studies assay, Rluc is fused N-terminally to either wild-type LC3 investigating autophagy-virusinteractions. (LC3WT) or a lipidation-deficient mutant of LC3 (G120A). Oneadditionalconsiderationisthatitmaynotbeabsolutely Since Rluc-LC3WT, in contrast to Rluc-LC3G120A, specifically necessarytofollowLC3-IIturnoverifothersubstratesarebeing associates with the autophagosomal membranes, Rluc-LC3WT monitored simultaneously. For example, an increase in LC3-II is more sensitive to autophagic degradation. A change in levelsincombinationwiththelysosomal(orideallyautophagy- autophagy-dependent LC3 turnover can thus be estimated by specific)removalofanautophagicsubstrate(suchasanorgan- monitoring the change in the ratio of luciferase activities elle249,250)thatisnotagoodproteasomalsubstrateprovidesan between the 2 cell populations expressing either Rluc-LC3WT independent assessment of autophagic flux. However, it is orRluc-LC3G120A.Initssimplestform,theRluc-LC3-assaycan probably prudent to monitor both turnover of LC3-II and an be used to estimate autophagic flux at a single time point by autophagosome substrate in parallel, due to the fact that LC3 defining the luciferase activities in cell extracts. Moreover, the mightbecoupledtoendosomal membranesandnotjustauto- useofalivecellluciferasesubstratemakesitpossibletomoni- phagosomes, and the levels of well-characterized autophago- torchangesinautophagicactivityinlivecellsinrealtime.This some substrates such as SQSTM1 can also be affected by methodhasbeensuccessfullyusedtoidentifypositiveandneg- proteasomeinhibitors.251 ative regulators of autophagy from cells treated with micro- Another issue relates to the use of protease inhibitors (see RNA,siRNAandsmallmoleculelibraries.242-248 Autophagy inhibitors and inducers). When using lysosomal Cautionarynotes:Themaincaveatregarding themeasure- protease inhibitors, it is of fundamental importance to assess mentofLC3-IIs/LC3-Iisthatthismethodhasonlybeentested proper conditions of inhibitor concentration and time of pre- inisolatedrathepatocytesandH4-II-Ecells.Thus,itisnotyet incubation to ensure full inhibition of lysosomal cathepsins. 48 D.J.KLIONSKYETAL. In this respect, 1 h of pre-incubation with 10 mg/ml E-64d is sufficient in most cases, since this inhibitor is membrane per- meable and rapidly accumulates within lysosomes, but another frequently used inhibitor, leupeptin, requires at least 6 h pre-incubation.59 Moreover, pepstatin A is membrane impermeable (ethanol or preferably DMSO must be employed as a vehicle) and requires a prolonged incubation (>8 h) and a relatively high concentration (>50 mg/ml) to fully inhibit lysosomal CTSD (Fig. 7). An incubation of this duration, however, can be problematic due to indirect effects (see GFP-Atg8/LC3 lysosomal delivery and proteolysis). At least in neurons, pepstatin alone is a less effective lysosomal proteolyticblock, and combining a cysteine protease inhibitor with it is most effective.59 Also, note that the relative amount
