AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


proteolysis). At least in neurons, pepstatin alone is a less effective lysosomal proteolyticblock, and combining a cysteine protease inhibitor with it is most effective.59 Also, note that the relative amount of lysosomal CTSB (cathepsin B) and CTSD is cell-specific and changes with culture conditions. A possible alternative to pepstatin A is the pepstatin A, BODIPY (cid:1) FL conjugate,252,253 which is transportedto lysosomes via endocytosis. In contrast to the protease inhibitors, chloroquine (10–40 mM) or bafilo- mycin A (1–100 nM) can be added to cells immediately prior to autophagy induction. Because cysteine protease inhibitors upregulate CTSD and have potential inhibitory activity toward calpains and other cysteine proteases, whereas bafilomycin A can have potential significant cytotoxicity, especially in cultured neurons and pathological states, the use of both methods may be important in some experiments to exclude off-target effects of a single method. Conclusion: It is important to be aware of the difference between monitoring the steady-state level of Atg8/LC3 and autophagic flux. The latter may be assessedby following Atg8/ LC3 in the absence and presence of autophagy inhibitors, and by examining the autophagy-dependent degradation of appro- priate substrates. In particular, if there is any evidence of an increaseinLC3-II(orautophagosomes),itisessentialtodeter- mine whether this represents increased flux, or a block in fusion or degradation through the use of inhibitors such as chloroquine or bafilomycin A . In the case of a suspected impaireddegradation,assessmentoflysosomalfunctionisthen requiredtovalidatetheconclusionandtoestablishthebasis. Figure 7. Effect of different inhibitors on LC3-II accumulation. SH-SY5Y human neuroblastomacellswereplatedandallowedtoadhereforaminimumof24h, c. GFP-Atg8/LC3lysosomaldeliveryandpartialproteolysis thentreatedinfreshmedium.Treatmentswereasfollows:rapamycin(Rap),(A) 1mM,4hor(B)10mM,4h;E-64d,finalconcentration10mg/mlfroma1mg/ml GFP-LC3B (hereafter referred to as GFP-LC3) has also been stockinethanol(EtOH);NHCl(NHC),finalconcentration10mMfroma1Mstock 4 4 usedtofollowflux.Itshouldbecautionedthat,aswithendoge- inwater;pepstatinA(Pst),finalconcentration10mg/mlfroma1mg/mlstockin nousLC3,an assessmentofautophagicGFP-LC3fluxisacar- ethanol,or68.6mg/mlfroma6.86mg/mlstockinDMSO;ethanolorDMSO,final concentration1%.Pre-incubationsin(B)werefor1or4hasindicated.10mM rier flux that cannot be equated with, and is not necessarily NHCl(or30mMchloroquine,notshown)werethemosteffectivecompoundsfor representativeof,anautophagiccargoflux.WhenGFP-Atg8or demonstratingtheaccumulationofLC3-II.E-64dwasalsoeffectiveinpreventing thedegradationofLC3-II,withorwithoutapreincubation,butammomiumchlo- GFP-LC3isdeliveredtoalysosome/vacuole,theAtg8/LC3part ride(orchloroquine)maybemoreeffective.PepstatinAat10mg/mlwitha1h of the chimera is sensitive to degradation, whereas the GFP pre-incubationwasnoteffectiveatblockingdegradation,whereasa100mMcon- protein is relatively resistant to hydrolysis (note, however, that centration with 4 h pre-incubation had a partial effect. Thus, alkalinizing com- GFP fluorescence is quenched by low pH; see GFP-Atg8/LC3 poundsaremoreeffectiveinblockingLC3-IIdegradation,andpepstatinAmustbe usedatsaturatingconditionstohaveanynoticeableeffect.ImagesprovidedbyC. fluorescencemicroscopyandTandemmRFP/mCherry-GFPfluo- Isidoro.NotethatthebandrunningjustbelowLC3-Iatapproximately17.5kDa rescencemicroscopy).Therefore,theappearanceoffreeGFPon may be a processing intermediate of LC3-I; it is detectable in freshly prepared homogenates, but is less visible after the sample is subjected to a freeze-thaw westernblotscanbeusedtomonitorlysisoftheinnerautopha- cycle. gosome membrane and breakdown of the cargo in metazoans (Fig. 8A),236,254,255 or the delivery of autophagosomes to, and the breakdown of autophagic bodies within, the fungal and degradationoffusedproteins.Inthesecelltypes,freeGFPfrag- plant vacuole.214,215,236,256 Reports on Dictyostelium and mam- mentsareonlydetectableinthepresenceofnonsaturatinglev- maliancellshighlighttheimportanceoflysosomalpHasacrit- els of lysosomotropic compounds (NH Cl or choroquine) or
