AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


The GFP-Atg8 processing assay is used toaperinuclearlargeproteinaggregate(detectedasred).Scalebar:5mm.Image routinelytomonitorautophagyinyeast.Onecaveat,however,is providedbyK.Kaarniranta. thatthisassayisnotalwayscarriedoutinaquantitativemanner. For example, western blot exposures need to be in the linear range. Accordingly, an enzymatic assay such as the Pho8D60 assay.257 Therefore, caution must be exercised in interpret- assay may be preferred (see Autophagic protein degrada- ing the data using this assay; it would be helpful to combine tion),261,262especiallywhenthedifferencesinautophagicactivity an analysis of GFP-LC3 processing with other assays, such need to be determined precisely (note that an equivalent assay as the monitoring of endogenous LC3-II by western blot. hasnotbeendevelopedforhighereukaryoticcells);however,as Alongtheselines,acautionconcerningtheuseoftheEGFP withanyenzymeassay,appropriatecautionmustbeusedregard- fluorescent protein for microscopy is that this fluorophore has ing, for example, substrate concentrations and linearity. The arelativelyneutralpHoptimumforfluorescence,263anditssig- Pho8D60 assay also requires a control to verify equal Pho8D60 naldiminishesquicklyduringlivecellimagingduetotheacidic expressioninthedifferentgeneticbackgroundsorconditionsto environment of the lysosome. It is possible to circumvent this betested;261differencesinPho8D60expressionpotentiallyaffect latter problem by imaging paraformaldehyde-fixed cultures its activity and may thus cause misinterpretation of results. thataremaintainedinaneutralpHbuffer,whichretainsEGFP AnotherissuetokeepinmindisthatGFP-Atg8processingcorre- fluorescence(M.KleinmanandJ.J.Reiners,personalcommuni- lateswiththesurfaceareaoftheinnersphereoftheautophago- cation).Alternatively,itmaybepreferabletouseadifferentflu- some, and thus provides a smaller signal than assays that orophoresuchasmRFPormCherry,whichretainfluorescence measure the volume of the autophagosome. Therefore, Pgk1- evenatacidicpH.264Ontheonehand,aputativeadvantageof GFPprocessing30orthePho8D60assayaregenerallymoresensi- mCherry over mRFP is its enhanced photostability and inten- tiveassays. sity, which are an order of magnitude higher (and comparable The main limitation of the GFP-LC3 processing assay in toGFP),enablingacquisitionofimagesatsimilarexposureset- mammalian cells is that it seems to depend on cell type and tings as are used for GFP, thus minimizing potential bias in culture conditions (N. Hosokawa and N. Mizushima, interpretation.265 On the other hand, caution is required when unpublished data). Apparently, GFP is more sensitive to evaluating the localization of mCherry fusion proteins during mammalian lysosomal hydrolases than to the degradative autophagy due to the persistence of the mCherry signal in milieu of the yeast vacuole or the lysosomes in Drosophila. acidic environments; all tagged proteins are prone to show Alternatively, the lower pH of mammalian lysosomes rela- enrichment inlysosomes during nonselectiveautophagy ofthe tive to that of the yeast vacuole may contribute to differen- cytoplasm, especially at higher expression levels. In addition, ces in detecting free GFP. Under certain conditions (such red fluorescent proteins (even the monomeric forms) can be as Earle’s balanced salt solution [EBSS]-induced starvation) toxic due to oligomer formation.266 Dendra2 is an improved in some cell lines, when the lysosomal pH becomes particu- versionofthegreen-to-redphotoswitchablefluorescentprotein larly low, free GFP is undetectable because both the LC3-II Dendra, which is derived from the octocoral Dendronephthya and free GFP fragments are quickly degraded.257 Therefore, sp.267 Dendra2 is capable
