AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


larly low, free GFP is undetectable because both the LC3-II Dendra, which is derived from the octocoral Dendronephthya and free GFP fragments are quickly degraded.257 Therefore, sp.267 Dendra2 is capable of irreversible photoconversion from if this method is used it should be accompanied by immu- agreentoaredfluorescentform,butcanbeusedalsoasanor- noblotting and include controls to address the stability of mal GFP or RFP vector. This modified version of the fluoro- nonlysosomal GFP such as GFP-LC3-I. It should also be phore has certain properties including a monomeric state, low noted that free GFP can be detected when cells are treated phototoxic activation and efficient chromophore maturation, with nonsaturating doses of inhibitors such as chloroquine, which make it suitable for real-time tracking of LC3 and E-64d and bafilomycin A . The saturating concentrations of SQSTM1 (Fig. 9; K. Kaarniranta, personal communication). these lysosomal inhibitors vary in different cell lines, and it Another alternative to mRFP or mCherry is to use the Venus would be better to use a saturating concentration of lyso- variantofYFP,whichisbrighterthanmRFPandlesssensitive somal inhibitors when performing an autophagic flux topHthanGFP.268 AUTOPHAGY 51 The pH optimum of EGFP is important to consider when for immunocytochemistry or immunohistochemistry using GFP-LC3constructs, as the original GFP-LC3 marker269 (IHC),197,289-294 procedures thathave theadvantagesof detect- uses the EGFP variant, which may result in a reduced signal ingtheendogenousprotein,obviatingtheneedfortransfection upontheformationofamphisomesorautolysosomes.Anaddi- and/or the generation of a transgenic organism, as well as tional caveat when using the photoactivatable construct PA- avoiding potential artifacts resulting from overexpression. For GFP263isthattheprocessofactivationbyphotonsmayinduce example,highlevelsofoverexpressedGFP-LC3canresultinits DNA damage, which could, in turn, induce autophagy. Also, nuclear localization, although the protein can still relocate to GFP is relatively resistant to denaturation, and boiling for the cytosol upon starvation. The use of imaging cytometry 5minmaybeneededtopreventthefoldedproteinfrombeing allows rapid and quantitative measures of the number of LC3 trappedinthestackinggelduringSDS-PAGE. puncta and their relative number in individual or mixed cell Asnotedabove(seeWesternblottingandubiquitin-likepro- types, using computerized assessment, enumeration, and data tein conjugation systems), Atg4/ATG4 cleaves the residue(s) display (e.g., see refs. 44, 295). In this respect, the alternative thatfollowtheC-terminalglycineofAtg8/LC3thatwillbecon- use of an automated counting system may be helpful for jugated to PE. Accordingly, it is critical that any chimeras be obtaininganobjectivenumberofpunctapercell.Forthispur- constructed with the fluorescent tag at the amino terminus of pose, the WatershedCounting3D plug-in for ImageJ may be Atg8/LC3(unlessthegoalistomonitorAtg4/ATG4activity). useful.296,297 Changes in the number of GFP-Atg8 puncta can Finally, lysosomal inhibition needs to be carefully con- also be monitored using flow cytometry (see Autophagic trolled.Prolongedinhibitionoflysosomal hydrolases (>6h)is flux determination using
