AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


Changes in the number of GFP-Atg8 puncta can Finally, lysosomal inhibition needs to be carefully con- also be monitored using flow cytometry (see Autophagic trolled.Prolongedinhibitionoflysosomal hydrolases (>6h)is flux determination using flow and multispectral imaging likely to induce a secondary autophagic response triggered by cytometry).221 the accumulated undigested autophagy cargo. This secondary Monitoring the endogenous Atg8/LC3 protein obviously autophagic response can complicate the analysis of the auto- depends on the ability to detect it in the system of interest, phagic flux, making it appear more vigorous than it would in which is not always possible. If the endogenous amount is theabsenceofthelysosomalinhibitors. below thelevelofdetection,theuse ofanexogenousconstruct monitors freeGFP generated withinthevacuole/lysosome, isa stabletransformantsversustransienttransfections.Ontheone convenientwaytofollowautophagy,butitdoesnotworkinall hand, stable transformants may have reduced background celltypes,andisnotaseasytoquantifyasenzyme-basedassays. resultingfromthelowergeneexpression,andartifactsresulting Furthermore,theassaymeasuresthefluxofanautophagiccar- from recent exposure to transfection reagents (see below) are rier, which may not necessarily be equivalent to autophagic eliminated. Furthermore, with stable transformants more cells cargoflux. can be easily analyzed because nearly 100% of the population will express tagged LC3. On the other hand, a disadvantage of d. GFP-Atg8/LC3fluorescencemicroscopy stable transfectants is that the integration sites cannot always LC3B,ortheproteintaggedatitsNterminuswithafluorescent bepredicted,andexpressionlevelsmaynotbeoptimal.There- protein such as GFP (GFP-LC3), has been used to monitor fore,itisworthconsideringtheuseofstableepisomalplasmids autophagythroughindirectimmunofluorescenceordirectfluo- thatavoidtheproblemofunsuitableintegration.264Animpor- rescence microscopy (Fig. 10), measured as an increase in tantadvantageoftransienttransfectionisthatthisapproachis punctate LC3 or GFP-LC3.269,270 The detection of GFP-LC3/ better for examining the immediate effects of the transfected Atg8 is also useful for in vivo studies using transgenic organ- protein on autophagy; however, the transient transfection isms such as Caenorhabditis elegans,271 Dictyostelium discoi- approach restricts the length of time that the analysis can be deum,272 filamentous ascomycetes,273-277 Ciona intestinalis,278 performed, and consideration must be given to the induction Drosophila melanogaster,279-281 Arabidopsis thaliana,282 Zea of autophagy resulting from exposure to the transfection mays,283Trypanosomabrucei,221,284,285Leishmaniamajor286-288 reagents (see below). One word of caution is that optimizing andmice.153Itisalsopossibletouseanti-LC3/Atg8antibodies the time of transient expression of GFP-LC3 is necessary, as Figure10. ChangesinthedetectionandlocalizationofGFP-LC3upontheinductionofautophagy.U87cellsstablyexpressingGFP-LC3weretreatedwithPBS,rapamycin (200nM),orrapamycinincombinationwith3-MA(2mM)for24h.RepresentativefluorescenceimagesofcellscounterstainedwithDAPI(nuclei)areshown.Scalebar: 10mm.ThisfigurewasmodifiedfromFigure6publishedinref.270,Badretal.LanatosideCsensitizesglioblastomacellstotumornecrosisfactor–relatedapoptosis- inducingligandandinducesanalternativecelldeathpathway.Neuro-Oncology,13:1213–24,2011,bypermissionofOxfordUniversityPress. 52 D.J.KLIONSKYETAL. somecelltypes (e.g., HeLacells)mayrequire1dayforachiev- GFP-LC3isbeingquantified,itisbettertodeterminethenum- ing optimal expression to visualize GFP-LC3 puncta, whereas berofpunctacorrespondingtoGFP-LC3onapercellbasis(or neuronalcelllinessuchasSH-SY5Ycellstypicallyneedatleast percellareabasis)ratherthansimplythetotalnumber(orper- 48hofexpressionpriortoperformingGFP-LC3punctaanaly- centage) of cells displaying puncta. This latter point is critical ses. In addition, a double transfection can be used (e.g., with because, even in nutrient-rich conditions, cells display some GFP-LC3 and the protein of interest) to visually tag the cells basal level of GFP-LC3 puncta. There are, however, practical thatexpresstheproteinbeingexamined. issueswithcountingpunctamanuallyandreliably,especiallyif A disadvantage of transfecting GFP-LC3 with liposomes is there are large numbers per cell. Nevertheless, manual scoring thatfrequentlyitleadstoanunstableefficiencyoftransfection, may be more
