AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


of GFP-LC3 puncta. There are, however, practical thatexpresstheproteinbeingexamined. issueswithcountingpunctamanuallyandreliably,especiallyif A disadvantage of transfecting GFP-LC3 with liposomes is there are large numbers per cell. Nevertheless, manual scoring thatfrequentlyitleadstoanunstableefficiencyoftransfection, may be more accurate than relying on a software program, in causingareductioninthenumberofcellseffectivelyexpressing which case it is important to ensure that only appropriate GFP-LC3,anddegradation ofthe plasmid,thusdecreasing the punctaarebeingcounted(applicableprogramsincludeImageJ, numbersofGFP-LC3puncta.Stablecelllinesexpressing GFP- Imaris, and the open-source software CellProfiler303). More- LC3 can be generated using lentiviral systems and efficiently over, when autophagosome-lysosome fusion is blocked, larger selected through antibiotic resistance leading to uniform and autophagosomesaredetected,possiblyduetoautophagosome- prolongedexpressionlevels.Thesestablecelllinesaresensitive autophagosome fusion, or to an inability to resolve individual to autophagy inducers as measured by the LC3-II/LC3-I autophagosomes when they are present in large numbers. ratio by western blot, and also show increased numbers of Although it is possible to detect changes in the size of GFP- cytoplasmic GFP-LC3 puncta upon autophagic stimuli Atg8/LC3punctabyfluorescencemicroscopy,itisnotpossible (R. Mun~oz-Moreno, R. I. Galindo, L. Barrado-Gil and C. to correlate size with autophagy activity without additional Alonso,unpublishedresults). assaymethods.Sizedeterminationscanbeproblematicbyfluo- In conclusion, there is no simple rule for the use of stable rescence microscopy unless careful standardization is carried versus transient transfections. When stable transfections are out,304 and size estimation on its own without considering utilizedthroughanonlentiviralsystem,itisworthwhilescreen- puncta number per cell is not recommended as a method for ing for stable clones that give the best signal-to-noise ratio; monitoring autophagy; however, it is possible to quantify the whentransienttransfectionsareused,itisworthwhileoptimiz- fluorescence intensity of GFP-Atg8/LC3 at specific puncta, ingtheGFP-LC3DNAconcentrationtogivethebestsignal-to- whichdoesprovideavalidmeasureofproteinrecruitment.305 noiseratio.Inclones,theuniformityofexpressionofGFP-LC3 In addition to autophagosome size, the number of puncta facilitates “thresholding” when scoring puncta-positive cells visible to the eye will also be influenced by both the level of (see below). However, there is also a need to be aware that a expression of GFP-LC3 in a given cell (an issue that can be single cell clone may not be representative of the overall pool. avoided by analyzing endogenous LC3 by immunofluores- Using a pool of multiple selected clones may reduce artifacts cence) and by the exposure time of the microscope, if using thatcanarisefromtheselectionandpropagationofindividual widefield microscopy. Another way to account for differential clonesfromasingletransfectedcell(althoughtheuseofapool GFP-LC3expressionlevelsand/orexposureistonormalizethe is also problematic as its composition will change over time). intensity of GFP-LC3 present in the puncta to the total GFP- Another possibility is using fluorescence-activated cell sorter LC3intensityinthecell.Thiscanbedoneeitheronthepopula- (FACS) sorting to select a mixed stable population with uni- tionlevel306orindividualcelllevel.298Inmanycelltypesitmay form GFP-LC3 expression levels.298 Optimization, together be possible to establish a threshold value for the number of withincludingtheappropriatecontrols(e.g.,transfectingGFP-
