AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


addition, we recommend that theformerstructure.Inaddition,thesite(s)ofLC3conjugation researchers validate their assays by demonstrating the absence to PE is not definitively known, and levels of Atg8–PE/LC3-II or reversal of GFP-LC3 puncta formation in cells treated with canincreaseeveninautophagymutantsthatcannotformauto- pharmacological or RNA interference-based autophagy inhibi- phagosomes.335OnemethodthatcanbeusedtoexamineLC3- tors(Table1).Forexample,3-MAiscommonlyusedtoinhibit II membrane association is differential extraction in Triton X- starvation- or rapamycin-induced autophagy,329 but it has no 114, which can be used with mammalian cells,331 or western effect on BECN1-independent forms of autophagy,83,151 and blot analysis of total membrane fractions following solubiliza- some data indicate that this compound can also have stimula- tionwithTritonX-100,whichishelpfulinplants.214,215Impor- tory effects on autophagy (see Autophagy inhibitors and tantly, we stress again that numbers of GFP-LC3 puncta, inducers).330 similar to steady state LC3-II levels, reflect only a snapshot of Another general limitation of the GFP-LC3 assay is that the numbers of autophagy-related structures (e.g., autophago- it requires a system amenable to the introduction of an somes)inacellatonetime,notautophagicflux. exogenous gene. Accordingly, the use of GFP-LC3 in pri- Finally, we offer a general note of caution with regard to mary nontransgenic cells is more challenging. Here again, using GFP. First, the GFP tag is large, in particular relative to controls need to be included to verify that the transfection the size of LC3; therefore, it is possible that a chimera may protocol itself does not artifactually induce GFP-LC3 puncta behave differently from the native protein in some respects. or cause LC3 aggregation. Furthermore, transfection should Second,GFPisnotnativetomostsystems,andassuchitmay be performed with low levels of constructs, and the trans- berecognizedasanaberrantproteinandtargetedfordegrada- fected cells should be followed to determine 1) when suffi- tion,whichhasobviousimplicationswhenstudyingautophagy. cient expression for detection is achieved, and 2) that, Third, some forms of GFP tend to oligomerize, which may during the time frame of the assay, basal GFP-LC3 puncta interfere with protein function and/or localization. Fourth, remain appropriately low. In addition, the demonstration of EGFP inhibits polyubiquitination336 and may cause defects in a reduction in the number of induced GFP-LC3 puncta other cellular processes. Fifth, not all LC3 puncta represent under conditions of autophagy inhibition is helpful. For LC3-II and correspond to autophagosomes.190,191,337,338 some primary cells, delivering GFP-LC3 to precursor cells Accordingly it would be prudent to complement any assays by infection with recombinant lentivirus, retrovirus or ade- that rely on GFP fusions (to Atg8/LC3 or any protein) with novirus,331 and subsequent differentiation into the cell type additionalmethodsthatavoidtheuseofthisfluorophore.Simi- of interest, is a powerful alternative to transfection of the larly, with
