AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


delivery to, and degradation by, the proteasome.434 whenperformingawesternblotusinganSQSTM1antibody,it Accordingly, it may be advisable to measure the UPS flux by is always a good idea to include a positive control in which using UbG76V-GFP, a ubiquitin-proteasome activity reporter, SQSTM1 accumulates, such as an atg8a mutant (e.g., see when SQSTM1 accumulation is observed. Thus, it is very Fig.S3inref.442). AUTOPHAGY 63 To conclusively establish SQSTM1 degradation by auto- more generally autophagy, play a critical evolutionarily con- phagy, SQSTM1 levels in both Triton X-100-soluble and served role in the clearance of cytotoxic protein aggregates.451 -insoluble fractions need to be determined upon treatment Experiments in yeast have shown that Cue5 and the cyto- with autophagy inducers in combination with autophagy plasmicproteinsthatrequire thisautophagyreceptorforrapid inhibitors, such as those that inhibit the autolysosomal deg- degradation under starvation conditions could be potentially radation steps (e.g., protease inhibitors, chloroquine or bafi- goodmarkerproteinsformeasuringautophagicflux. lomycin A ). Additionally, an alteration in the level of Special caution must be taken when evaluating SQSTM1 SQSTM1 may not be immediately evident with changes levels in models of protein aggregation. Small protoaggre- observed in autophagic flux upon certain chemical perturba- gates often stain positively for SQSTM1 and may be similar tions (S. Sarkar, personal communication). Whereas LC3 in size to autophagic puncta. Similarly, GFP-u/GFP-degron changes may be rapid, clearance of autophagy substrates reporters (designed as an unstable variant that undergoes may require a longer time. Therefore, if LC3 changes are proteasome-dependent degradation) will mark SQSTM1- assessed at 6 h or 24 h after a drug treatment, SQSTM1 lev- positive protein inclusions. Last, some types of aggregates els can be tested not only at the same time points, but also and inclusions will release soluble SQSTM1 or GFP-u/GFP- at later time points (24 h or 48 h) to determine the maxi- degron under cell lysis or denaturing conditions, which can mal impact on substrate clearance. An alternative method is skew the interpretation of soluble SQSTM1 and/or protea- immunostaining, with and without autophagy inhibitors, for somal function, accordingly. pattern. Experiments with autophagy inducers and inhibi- increases in LC3-II and decreases in SQSTM1. Thus, although tors, in combination with western blot and immunostaining analysis of SQSTM1 can assist in assessing the impairment of analyses, best establish autophagic degradation based on autophagy or autophagic flux, we recommend using SQSTM1 SQSTM1 turnover. A final point, however, is that empirical only in combination with other methods detailed in these evidence suggests that
