AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


phosphorylation by the growth phosphorylation in vivo as is done with analyses for MTOR. factor signaling molecules EGFR and AKT.522,523 Note that the Nonetheless, it must be kept in mind that monitoring effect of everolimus in EGFR-transgenic mice is not mainly changes in the activity of Atg1/ULK1 is not a direct assay for attributable to autophagy although it suppresses MTOR and autophagy, although such changes may correlate with auto- inducesautophagy in EGFR-driven lung cancer cell lines.524 In phagyactivity.Furthermore,insomecellsULK1hasfunctions adultskeletalmuscle,activeMTORC1phosphorylatesULK1at in addition to autophagy,suchas inaxonal transport andout- Ser757 to inhibit the induction of autophagosome formation. growth, and its activity state may thus reflect its role in these Thus, induction of autophagy requires inhibition of MTORC1 processes.529-534 Accordingly, other methods as described andnotofMTORC2.525,526Thereisalsoevidencethatinhibition throughouttheseguidelinesshouldalsobeusedtofollowauto- of MTORC1 is not sufficient to maintain autophagic flux, but phagydirectly. requiresadditionalactivationofFOXOtranscriptionfactorsfor Finally,thereisnotacompleteconsensusonthespecificres- the upregulation of autophagy gene expression.468 In addition, iduesofULK1thataretargetedbyAMPKorMTOR.Similarly, MTORC1 is downstream of AKT; however, oxidative stress apparently contradictory data have been published regarding inhibitsMTOR,thusallowingautophagyinduction,despitethe the association of AMPK and MTOR with the ULK1 kinase AUTOPHAGY 67 complex under different conditions. Therefore, caution should extensively in higher eukaryotes, but this protein displays the be used in monitoring ULK1 phosphorylation or the status of same type of dependence on Atg1/ULK1 and PtdIns3P for ULK1associationwithAMPKuntiltheseissuesareresolved. cyclingasseeninyeast,535,538suggestingthatitispossibletofol- Conclusion: Assays for Atg1/ULK1 can provide detailed lowthisATG9asanindicationofULK1andATG13function.492 insight into the induction of autophagy, but they are not a directmeasurementoftheprocess.Similarly,sinceMTORsub- stratessuchasRPS6KB1andEIF4EBP1 arenotrecommended readouts for autophagy, their analysis needs to be combined b. Atg12–Atg5 withotherassaysthatdirectlymonitorautophagyactivity. ATG5, ATG12 and ATG16L1 associate with the phagophore andhavebeendetectedbyfluorescenceorimmunofluorescence (Fig.17).539,540 The endogenousproteins form puncta that can 5. Additionalautophagy-relatedproteinmarkers befollowedtomonitorautophagyupregulation.Underphysio- AlthoughAtg8/LC3hasbeenthemostextensivelyusedprotein logical conditions, these proteins are predominantly diffusely for monitoring autophagy, other proteins can also be used for distributedthroughoutthecytoplasm.Uponinductionofauto- this purpose. Here, we discuss some of the more commonly phagy, for example during starvation, there is a marked usedorbetter-characterizedpossibilities. increaseintheproportionofcellswithpunctateATG5,ATG12 and ATG16L1. Furthermore, upstream inhibitors of autopha- a. Atg9 gosome formation result in a block in this starvation-induced Atg9istheonlyintegralmembraneAtgproteinthatisessential puncta formation, and this assay is very robust in some mam- for autophagosome formation in all eukaryotes. Mammalian malian cells. Conversely, downstream inhibition of autophagy ATG9 displays partial colocalization with GFP-LC3.535 Perhaps at the level of autophagosome elongation, such as with inhibi- the most unique feature of Atg9, however, is that it localizes to tion of LC3/GABARAP expression, results in an accumulation multiplediscretepuncta,whereasmostAtgproteinsaredetected of the phagophore-associated ATG5, ATG12 and ATG16L1 primarily in a single punctum or diffusely within the
