AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


autophagic sequestration in response to cer- STX17 is a SNARE protein that is recruited to completely amide stress, leading to tumor suppression.591-593 The binding sealedautophagosomes, butnottophagophores.584,585 Aslittle ofceramidetoLC3-IIcanbedetectedusinganti-ceramideand STX17ispresentonautolysosomes,STX17isenrichedoncom- anti-LC3 antibodies by immunofluorescence and confocal pleted autophagosomes among autophagy-related structures. microscopy, co-immunoprecipitation using anti-LC3 antibody However, STX17 as a competence factor may be recruited just followed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrome- prior to fusion of autophagosomes with lysosomes, and not all try,usingappropriatestandards(targetedlipidomics),orlabel- autophagosomes are positive for this protein. Moreover, it is ing cells with biotin-sphingosine to generate biotin-ceramide, alsopresentattheERandmitochondria. and immunoprecipitation using avidin-columns followed by westernblottingtodetectLC3-II.Itshouldbenotedthatinhib- j. TECPR1 itors of ceramide generation, and mutants of LC3 with altered TECPR1bindsATG5throughanAFIM(ATG5[five]interact- ceramide binding (F52A or I35A), and/or that are conjugation ing motif). TECPR1 competes with ATG16L1 for binding to defective(e.g.,G120A),shouldbeusedasnegativecontrols. ATG5, suggesting that there is a transition from the ATG5- Other sphingolipids are also involved in autophagy. For ATG16L1 complex that is involved in phagophore expansion example, accumulation of endogenous sphingosine-1-phos- to an ATG5-TECPR1 complex that plays a role in autophago- phate, a pro-survival downstream metabolite from ceramide some-lysosome fusion. TECPR1 thus marks lysosomes and triggers ER-stress associated macroautophagy, by activation of autolysosomes.586 AKT.594 In addition, gangliosides, have been implicated in Conclusion: Proteins other than Atg8/LC3 can be moni- autolysosomemorphogenesis.595Toanalyzetheroleofganglio- toredtofollowautophagy,andthesecanbeimportanttoolsto sides in autophagy, 2 main technical approaches can be used: define specific steps of the process. For example, WIPI puncta co-immunoprecipitation and fluorescence resonance energy formation can be used to monitor autophagy, but, similar to transfer. For the first method, lysates from untreated or auto- Atg8/LC3, should be examined in the presence and absence of phagy-induced cells have to be immunoprecipitated with an lysosomal inhibitors. Analysis of WIPI puncta should be com- anti-LC3 polyclonal antibody (a rabbit IgG isotypic control bined with other assays because individual members of the should be used as a negative control). The obtained immuno- WIPI family might also participate in additional, uncharacter- precipitates are subjected to ganglioside extraction, and the ized functions apart from their role in autophagy. At present, extracts run on an HPTLC aluminum-backed silica gel and wecautionagainsttheuseofchangesinBECN1localizationas analyzed for the presence of specific gangliosides by using a marker of autophagy induction. It is also worth considering monoclonal antibodies. Alternatively, the use of FRET by flow theuseofdifferentmarkersdependingonthespecificautopha- cytometry appears to be highly sensitive to small changes in gicstimuli. distance between 2 molecules and is thus suitable to study molecular interactions, for example, between ganglioside
