AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


or starvation, and in tissues undergoing regulation, several studies implicate microRNAs in controlling disease-induced autophagy such as cancer.632 VMP1 is an the expression of proteins associated with auto- essential autophagy gene that is conserved from Dictyostelium phagy.243,247,248,645-647 of the autophagic pathway.561 VMP1 is poorly expressed in significant changes in mRNA levels when autophagy is mammalian cells under nutrient-normal conditions, but is induced. Even increases in LC3 mRNA can be quite modest highly upregulated in cells undergoing autophagy, and the and are cell type- and organism-dependent.648 In addition, expression of VMP1 induces autophagosome formation. The it is generally better to follow protein levels, which, ulti- GLI3 transcription factor is an effector of KRAS that regulates mately, are the significant parameter with regard to the ini- the expression and promoter activity of VMP1, using the his- tiation and completion of autophagy. However, ATG toneacetyltransferaseEP300/p300asaco-activator.634 protein amounts do not always change significantly and the A gene regulatory network, named CLEAR (coordinated extent of increase is again cell type- and tissue-dependent. lysosomal expression and regulation) that controls both lyso- Finally, changes in autophagy protein levels are not suffi- some and autophagosome biogenesis was identified using a cient evidence of autophagy induction and must be accom- systems-biology approach.625,635,636 The basic helix-loop- panied by additional assays as described herein. Thus, helix transcription factor TFEB acts as a master gene of the monitoring changes in mRNA levels for either ATG genes CLEAR network and positively regulates the expression of or autophagy regulators may provide some evidence sup- both lysosomal and autophagy genes, thus linking the porting upregulation of the potential to undergo autophagy, biogenesis of 2 distinct types of cellular compartments that but should be used along with other methods. cooperate in the autophagic pathway. TFEB activity is regu- Another general caution pertains to the fact that in any lated by starvation and is controlled by both MAPK1/ERK2- cell culture system mixed populations of cells (for example, and MTOR-mediated phosphorylation at specific serine those undergoing autophagy or not) exist simultaneously. residues;625,637,638 thus, it can serve as a new tool for monitor- Therefore, only an average level of protein or mRNA ing transcriptional regulation connected with autophagy. expression can be evaluated with most methods. This means TFEB is phosphorylated by MTORC1 on the lysosomal sur- that the results regarding specific changes in autophagic face, preventing its nuclear translocation. A lysosome-to- cells could be hidden due to the background
