AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


phosphorylated by MTORC1 on the lysosomal sur- that the results regarding specific changes in autophagic face, preventing its nuclear translocation. A lysosome-to- cells could be hidden due to the background of the average nucleus signaling mechanism transcriptionally regulates auto- data. Along these lines, experiments using single-cell real- phagy and lysosomal biogenesis via MTOR and TFEB.638 A time PCR to examine gene expression in individual cardio- veryuseful readout of endogenous TFEBactivityis theevalua- myocytes with and without signs of autophagy revealed that tion of TFEB subcellular localization, as activation of TFEB the transcription of MTOR markedly and significantly correlates with its translocation from the cytoplasm to the increases in autophagic cells in intact cultures (spontane- nucleus. This shift can be monitored by immunofluorescence ously undergoing autophagy) as well as in cultures treated using antibodies against TFEB. TFEB localization may also be with proteasome inhibitors to induce autophagy (V. Dos- studied to monitor MTOR activity, as in most cases TFEB enko, personal communication). Finally, researchers need to nuclearlocalizationcorrelateswith inhibitionof MTOR.How- realize that mammalian cell lines may have mutations that ever, due to the low expression levels of TFEB in most cells alter autophagy signaling or execution; this problem can be and tissues, it may be difficult to visualize the endogenous avoided by using primary cells. protein. Thus a TFEB nuclear translocation assay was devel- Conclusion: Although there are changes in ATG gene oped in a HeLa cell line stably transfected with TFEB-GFP. expression that coincide with, and may be needed for, auto- This fluorescence assay can be used to identify the conditions phagy, this has not been carefully studied experimentally. 2 other members of the MiT/TFE family of transcription fac- monitoring of ATG gene transcription as a general readout tors, in some cases can compensate for TFEB and are regu- for autophagy unless there is clear documentation that the latedina similarmanner.639,640 change(s)correlateswithautophagyactivity. AUTOPHAGY 73 8. PosttranslationalmodificationofATGproteins obtained from mutants missing central ATG components (however, it is important to note that these controls are only Autophagy is controlled by posttranslational modification appropriate assuming that nonautophagic proteolytic activity (PTM) of ATG proteins such as phosphorylation, ubiquitina- remains unchanged, which is unlikely); these values are then tion, acetylation, oxidation and cleavage, which can be moni- subtracted from the total readouts. The complementary tored to analyze the status of the process.343,438,519,523,649-652 approach of using compounds that block other degradative The global deacetylation of proteins, which often accompanies
