AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


appropriateunlabeledaminoacid(i.e.,valine,leucineormethi- by incubation in the presence of 3-MA leads to an accumula- onine) in the starvation medium at a concentration equivalent tion of the NeoR-GFP protein as measured by flow tothatofotheraminoacidsin thechasemediumisnecessary; cytometry.676 otherwise,thereleased[14C]-aminoacidiseffectivelyre-incor- A similar western blot assay is based on the degradation porated into cellular proteins, which results in a significant of a cytosolic protein fused to GFP. This method has been underestimation of protein degradation. A newer method of used in yeast and Dictyostelium cells using GFP-Pgk1 and quantifying autophagic protein degradation is based on L-azi- GFP-Tkt-1 (phosphoglycerate kinase and transketolase, dohomoalanine (AHA) labeling.660 When added to cultured respectively). In this case the relative amount of free GFP cells,L-azidohomoalanineis incorporatedinto proteinsduring versus the complete fusion protein is the relevant parameter activeproteinsynthesis.Afteraclickreactionbetweenanazide for quantification; although it may not be possible to detect and an alkyne, the azide-containing proteins can be detected clear changes in the amount of the full-length chimera, with an alkyne-tagged fluorescent dye, coupled with flow especially under conditions of limited flux.30,37 As described cytometry. The turnover of specific proteins can also be above for the marker GFP-Atg8/LC3, nonsaturating levels measured in a pulse-chase regimen using the Tet-ON/OFF of lysosomal inhibitors are also needed in Dictyostelium or GeneSwitch systems and subsequent western blot analy- cells to slow down the autophagic degradation, allowing the sis.661-663 accumulation and detection of free GFP. It should be noted Inthistypeofassayaconsiderablefractionofthemeasured that this method monitors bulk autophagy since it relies on degradation will be nonautophagic, and thus it is important to the passive transit of a cytoplasmic marker to the lysosome. also measure, in parallel, cell samples treated with autophagy- Consequently, it is important to determine that the marker suppressive concentrations of 3-MA or amino acids, or is distributed homogeneously in the cytoplasm. 74 D.J.KLIONSKYETAL. One of the most useful methods for monitoring auto- pharmacological protease inhibitors have “off target” effects phagy in Saccharomyces cerevisiae is the Pho8D60 assay. thatcomplicatetheinterpretationofthedata. PHO8 encodes a vacuolar phosphatase, which is synthesized The Pho8D60 assay requires standard positive and negative as a zymogen before finally being transported to and acti- controls (such as an atg1D strain), and care must be taken to vated in the vacuole.677 A molecular genetic modification ensuretheefficiencyofcelllysis.Glassbeadslysisworkswellin that eliminates the first 60 amino acids prevents the mutant general, provided that the agitation speed of the instrument is (Pho8D60) from entering the ER, leaving the zymogen in adequate. Instruments designed for liquid mixing
