AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


amino acids prevents the mutant general, provided that the agitation speed of the instrument is (Pho8D60) from entering the ER, leaving the zymogen in adequate. Instruments designed for liquid mixing with lower the cytosol. When autophagy is induced, the mutant zymo- speedsshouldbeavoided.Wealsorecommendagainstholding gen is delivered to the vacuole nonselectively inside auto- individualsampletubesonavortex,asitisdifficulttomaintain phagosomes along with other cytoplasmic material. The reproducibility; devices or attachments are available to allow resulting activation of the zymogen can be easily measured multiple tubes to be agitated simultaneously. Finally, it is also by enzymatic assays for phosphatase activity.261 To mini- important to realize that the deletion of PHO8 can affect yeast mize background activity, it is preferable to have the gene cellphysiology,especiallydependingonthegrowthconditions, encoding the cytosolic phosphatase (PHO13) additionally and this may in turn have consequences for the cell wall; cells deleted (although this is not necessary when assaying cer- under starvation stress generate thicker cell walls that can be tain substrates). difficulttodegradeenzymatically. Cautionary notes: Measuring the degradation of long-lived Conclusion: Measuring the turnover of long-lived proteins proteins requires prior radiolabeling of the cells, and subse- is a standard method for determining autophagic flux. quentseparationofacid-solublefromacid-insolubleradioactiv- Newer proteomic techniques that compare protein levels in ity.Thelabelingcanbedonewithrelativeeasebothincultured autophagy-deficient animals relative to wild-type animals are cellsandinliveanimals.3Incells,itisalsopossibletomeasure promising,681 but the current ratiometric methods are affected the release of an unlabeled amino acid by chromatographic by both protein synthesis and degradation, and thus analyze methods, thereby obviating the need for prelabeling;678 how- proteinturnover,notjustdegradation. ever,itisimportanttokeep inmindthataminoacid release is alsoregulatedbyproteinsynthesis,whichinturnismodulated 10. Selectivetypesofautophagy bymanydifferentfactors.Ineithercase,onepotentialproblem isthatthereleasedaminoacidmaybefurthermetabolized.For Although autophagy can be nonselective, in particular during example, branched chain amino acids are good indicators of starvation, there are many examples of selective types of proteolysis in hepatocytes, but not in muscle cells where they autophagy. are further oxidized (A.J. Meijer, personal communication). In addition, the amino acid can be reincorporated into protein; a. TheCvtpathway,mitophagy,pexophagy,piecemeal forthisreason,suchexperimentscanbecarriedoutinthepres- microautophagyofthenucleusandlatenucleophagyin ence of cycloheximide, but this raises additional concerns (see yeastandfilamentousfungi Turnover of autophagic compartments). In the case of labeled TheprecursorformofaminopeptidaseI(prApe1)isthemajor amino acids, a nonlabeled chase is added where the tracer cargo of the Cvt pathway in yeast, a biosynthetic autophagy- amino acid is present in excess (being cautious to avoid using relatedpathway.128ThepropeptideofprApe1isproteolytically anaminoacidthatinhibitsautophagy),orbyuseofsinglepass cleaved upon vacuolar delivery, and the resulting shift in perfused organs or superfused cells.679,680 The perfused organ molecularmasscanbemonitoredbywesternblot.Understar- systemalsoallowsfortestingthereversibilityofeffectsonpro- vation conditions, prApe1 can enter the vacuole through non- teolysis and the use of autophagy-specific inhibitors in the selective autophagy, and
