AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


Constructs are Osh1, a member of a family of oxysterol-binding proteins. cotransfectedintocells.Ifthe2proteinsofinterestinteract,the Upon starvation the NVJs bulge into the vacuole and subse- 2halvesofthereporterarebroughtintocloseproximityanda quently a PMN-vesicle pinches off into the vacuole. PMN fluorescent signal is reconstituted, which can be monitored by vesicles thus contain nuclear material and are limited by 3 confocalmicroscopy.Thisassaycanbeusedtodeterminepro- membranes with the outermost derived from the vacuole, and tein interactions without prior knowledge of the location or the 2 inner ones from the nuclear ER. It is not clear which structural nature of the interaction interface. Moreover, it is nuclear components are removed by PMN, but since PMN is applicable to living cells, and relatively low concentrations of not a cell death mechanism per se, most likely superfluous recombinant protein are required to generate a detectable material is recycled. During PMN the NVJs are selectively signal. incorporatedintothePMNvesiclesanddegraded.Accordingly, 76 D.J.KLIONSKYETAL. PMN can be monitored using the proteins that are associated Cautionarynotes:TheCvtpathwayhasbeendemonstrated with the NVJs as markers. To quantitatively follow PMN, an tooccuronlyinyeast.Inaddition,thesequestrationofprApe1 assay analogous to the above-described GFP-Atg8/LC3 proc- is specific, even under starvation conditions, as it involves the essingassayhas beenestablishedusingeitherGFP-Swh1/Osh1 recognition of the propeptide by a receptor, Atg19, which in or Nvj1-GFP. These GFP chimeras are, together with the turn interacts with the scaffold protein Atg11.727,728 Thus, PMN-vesicles,degradedinthevacuole.Thus,theformationof unlessthe propeptide isremoved or ATG19is deleted, prApe1 the relatively proteolysis-resistant GFP detected in western isrecognizedasaselectivesubstrate.OverexpressionofprApe1 blotscorrelateswiththePMNrate.Influorescencemicroscopy, saturates import by the Cvt pathway, and the precursor form PMNcanbevisualizedwiththesameconstructs,andachimera accumulates, but is rapidly matured upon autophagy induc- of mCherry fused to a nuclear localization signal (NLS- tion.305Inaddition,mutantssuchasvac8Dandtlg2Daccumu- mCherry) can alsobe used.To assure thatthemeasured PMN late prApe1 under rich conditions, but not during rate is indeed due to selective micronucleophagy, appropriate autophagy.505,729 Accordingly, it is possible to monitor the controlssuchascellslackingNvj1orVac8shouldbeincluded. processingofprApe1whenoverexpressed,orincertainmutant Detailed protocols for the described assays are provided in strainstofollowautophagyinduction.However,under thelat- ref.719. ter conditions it must be kept in mind that the sequestering Late nucleophagy (LN) is another type of selective degra- vesicles are substantially smaller than typical autophagosomes dation of the nucleus, which specifically targets bulk nucleo- generated during nonselective autophagy; the Cvt complex plasm for degradation after prolonged periods (20–24 h) of (prApe1 bound to Atg19) is smaller than typical peroxisomes nitrogen starvation.720 LN induction occurs in the absence ormitochondrialfragmentsthataresubjecttoautophagicdeg- of the essential PMN proteins Nvj1 and Vac8 and, there- radation. Accordingly, particular mutants may display com- fore, the formation of NVJs. Although some components of plete maturation of
