AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


be followed in vitro (in example with mCherry-histone H2B) on the membranous cell culture) and in vivo (in mice) by monitoring the levels of organelles within 3 min after fertilization. GFP fusions and anaggregate-proneproteinsuchasanexpandedpolyglutamine antibodies specific for LGG-1 and LGG-2 (Atg8/LC3 homo- (polyQ)-containingproteinormutantSNCA/a-synuclein(syn- logs), which appear next to the sperm DNA, membranous uclein,alpha[nonA4componentofamyloidprecursor]).Lev- organelles and mitochondria (labeled with CMXRos or mito- els are quantified by immunofluorescence, immunogold chondria-targeted GFP) within 15 to 30 min post-fertilization, labeling or traditional immunoblot. In yeast, degradation of canbeusedtoverifytheautophagicnatureofthedegradation. SNCAaggregatescanbefollowedbypromoter shut-offassays. TEMcanalsobeutilizedtodemonstratethepresenceofmito- Espression of the inducible GAL1 promoter of GFP-tagged chondriawithinautophagosomesintheearlyembryo. SNCAisstopped byglucose repression. Theremovalofaggre- Conclusion: There are many assays that can be used to gatesisthusmonitoredwithfluorescencemicroscopy.Thecon- monitorselectivetypesofautophagy,butcautionmustbeused tribution of autophagy to SNCA aggregate clearance can be in choosing an appropriate marker(s). The potential role of studied by the use of different autophagy mutants or by phar- other degradative pathways for any individual organelle or macological treatment with the proteinase B inhibitor cargo marker should be considered, and it is advisable to use PMSF.732,733Similarly,fluorescentlytaggedaggregatedproteins morethanonemarkerortechnique. such as polyQ80-CFP can be monitored via immunoblot and immunofluorescence. In addition to fluorescence methods, d. Animalmitophagyandpexophagy aggregates formed by a splice variant of CCND2 (cyclin D2) There is no consensus at the present time with regard to the can also be monitored in electron-dense lysosomes and auto- bestmethodformonitoringmitophagyinanimals.Aswithany phagosomes by immunogold labeling and TEM techniques.734 organelle-specificformofautophagy,itisnecessarytodemon- A polyQ80-luciferase reporter, which forms aggregates, can strate: i) increased levels of autophagosomes containing mito- also be used to follow aggrephagy.735 A nonaggregating chondria, ii) maturation of these autophagosomes that polyQ19-luciferaseoruntaggedfull-lengthluciferaseservesasa culminates with mitochondrial degradation, which can be control. The ratio of luciferase activity from these 2 constructs blockedbyspecificinhibitorsofautophagyoroflysosomaldeg- canbecalculatedtodetermineautophagicflux. radation,andiii)whetherthechangesareduetoselectivemito- Autophagic degradation of endogenous aggregates such as phagy or increased mitochondrial degradation during lipofuscincanbe monitoredinsomecelltypes byfluorescence nonselective autophagy. Techniques to address each of these microscopy, utilizing the autofluorescence of lipofuscin par- pointshavebeenreviewed.42,743 ticles. Although under normal conditions almost 99% of the Antibodies against phosphorylated ubiquitin (p-S65-Ub) lipofuscin particles are located in the autophagosomes/lyso- have very recently been described as novel tools to detect the somes,animpairmentofmacroautophagyleadstofreelipofus- activation of PINK1-PARK2-mediated mitophagy.744 p-S65- cin in the cytosol.736,737 The amount of lipofuscin in primary UbisformedbythekinasePINK1specificallyuponmitochon- human adipocytes can be reduced by activation of macroauto- drialstress,andisamplifiedinthepresenceoftheE3Ubligase phagy,andtheamountoflipofuscinisdramaticallyreducedin PARK2 (reviewed in ref. 745).746 p-S65-Ub antibodies have adipocytes from patients with type 2 diabetes and chronically been used to demonstrate stress-induced activation of PINK1 enhancedmacroautophagy.294 in various cells including primary
