AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


leaf carbon status, indicating that chlor- cein AM to tag iron.808,810 NCOA4 is a cargo receptor that ophagy through RCBs represents an important route for recy- recruitsferritintotheautophagosome.804 clingplantnutrientsprovidedinplastidstores. h. Intraplastidialautophagy f. Chromatophagy Intraplastidial autophagy is a process whereby plastids of some Autophagy has been known for its pro-survival role in cells cell types adopt autophagic functions, engulfing and digesting under metabolic stress and other conditions. However, exces- portions of the cytoplasm. These plastids are characterized by sivelyinducedautophagymaybecytotoxicandmayleadtocell formationofinvaginationsintheirdouble-membraneenvelopes death. Chromatophagy (chromatin-specific autophagy) comes that eventually generate a cytoplasmic compartment within the into view as one of the autophagic responses that can contrib- plastidial stroma, isolated from the outer cytoplasm. W. Nagl utetocelldeath.803Chromatophagycanbeseenincellsduring coined the term “plastolysome” to define this special plastid nutrient depletion, such as arginine starvation, and its pheno- type.811Initially,theengulfedcytoplasmisidenticaltotheouter typeconsistsofgiant-autophagosomeformation,nucleusmem- cytoplasm,containingribosomes,vesiclesandevenlargerorgan- brane rupture and histone-associated-chromatin/DNA leakage elles. Lytic activity was demonstrated in these plastids, in both thatiscapturedbyautophagosomes.803Argininestarvationcan thecytoplasmiccompartmentandthestroma.Therefore,itwas be achieved by adding purified arginine deiminase to remove suggested that plastolysomes digest themselves together with AUTOPHAGY 83 theircytoplasmiccargo,andtransformintolyticvacuoles.Intra- k. Oxiapoptophagy plastidial autophagy has been reported in plastids of suspensor There are now several lines of evidence indicating that cells of Phaseolus coccineus811 and Phaseolus vulgaris,812 where autophagy is an essential process in vascular functions. plastidstransformedintoautophagicvacuolesduringthesenes- Autophagy can be considered as atheroprotective in the cence of the suspensor. This process was also demonstrated in early stages of atherosclerosis and detrimental in advanced petal cellsof Dendrobium813 and inBrassica napus microspores atherosclerotic plaques.831 Currently, little is known about experimentally induced towards embryogenesis.814 All these the molecules that promote autophagy on the cells of the reportsestablishedaclearlinkbetweentheseplastidtransforma- vascular wall. As increased levels of cholesterol oxidation tions and their engagement in autophagy. At present, descrip- products (also named oxysterols) are found in atheroscle- tions of this process are limited to a few, specialized plant cell rotic lesions,832 the part taken by these molecules has been types. However, pictures of cytoplasm-containing plastids in investigated, and several studies support the idea that some otherplantcelltypeshavebeenoccasionallypublished,although of them could contribute to the induction of auto- the authors did not make any mention of this special plastid phagy.833,834 It is now suggested that oxysterols, especially type. For example, this has been seen in pictures of fertile and 7-ketocholesterol, which can be increased under various Ogu-INRAmalesteriletetradsofBrassicanapus,815andPhaseo- stress conditions in numerous age-related diseases not only lus vulgaris root cells.816 Possibly, this process is not as rare as including vascular diseases but also
