AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


cellular particularly upon nitrogen starvation.847 This process can be neutral lipid content, the presence and potential activation of monitored by western blot, following the generation of free cytoplasmiclipasesthatareunrelatedtolysosomaldegradation GFPfromRpl25-GFPorRpl5-GFP,848orthedisappearanceof mustbeconsidered. ribosomal subunits such as Rps3. Vacuolar localization of Rpl25-GFP or Rpl5-GFP can also be seen by fluorescence j. Lysophagy microscopy.TheRkr1/Ltn1ubiquitinligaseactsasaninhibitor Lysophagy is a selective macroautophagy process that partici- of60Sribosomalsubunitribophagyvia,atleast,Rpl25asatar- patesincellularqualitycontrolthroughlysosometurnover.By get, andisantagonizedbythedeubiquitinaseUbp3-Bre5 com- eliminating ruptured lysosomes,lysophagy prevents the subse- plex.847,848Rkr1/Ltn1andUbp3-Bre5likelycontributetoadapt quent activation of the inflammasome complex and innate ribophagy activity to both nutrient supply and protein immuneresponse.829,830 translation. 84 D.J.KLIONSKYETAL. n. RNA-silencingcomponents usingFM4–64,alipophilicdyethatprimarilystainsendocytic SeveralcomponentsoftheRNA-silencingmachineryareselec- compartments and thevacuole limiting membrane.862 In these tively degraded by autophagy in different organisms. This was experiments, starved yeast cells are replenished with fresh glu- firstshownfortheplantAGO1/ARGONAUTE1protein,akey cose and FM 4–64, and cells are collected at appropriate time componentoftheArabidopsisRNA-inducedsilencingcomplex pointsforexaminationbyfluorescencemicroscopy.860Thesite (RISC)that,afterubiquitinationbyavirusencodedF-boxpro- of degradation of the cargo in the vacuole can be determined tein,istargetedtothevacuole.849AGO1colocalizeswithArabi- by studying the distribution of Fbp1-GFP, or other Vid cargo dopsis ATG8a-positive bodies and its degradation is impaired markers in wild-type and pep4D cells.863 Cells can also be by various drugs such as 3-MA and E64d, or in Arabidopsis examined for the distribution of Fbp1 at the ultrastructural mutantsinwhichautophagyiscompromisedsuchastheTOR- levelbyimmuno-TEM.864 overexpressingmutantlineG548ortheatg7-2mutantallele(P. Asactinpatchpolymerizationisrequiredforthedeliveryof Genschik, unpublished data). Moreover, this pathway also cargo to the vacuole in the Vid pathway, distribution of Vid degradesAGO1inanonviralcontext,especiallywhenthepro- vesiclescontainingcargoandactinpatchescanbeexaminedby duction of miRNAs is impaired. In mammalian cells, not only actinstaining(withphalloidinconjugatedtorhodamine)using themainmiRNAeffectorAGO2,butalsothemiRNA-process- fluorescence microscopy.864 The distribution of GFP tagged ing enzyme DICER1, is degraded as a miRNA-free entity by protein and actin is examined by fluorescence microscopy. selectiveautophagy.850Chemicalinhibitorsofautophagy(bafi- GFP-Vid24, Vid30-GFP and Sec28-GFP colocalize with actin lomycin A and chloroquine) and, in HeLa cells, depletion of during prolonged glucose starvation and for up to 30 min fol- keyautophagycomponentsATG5,ATG6orATG7usingshort lowing glucose replenishment in wild-type cells; however, interfering RNAs, blocks the degradation of both proteins. colocalizationislessobviousbythe60-mintimepoint.859,864 Electron microscopy shows that DICER1 is associated with membrane-bound structures having the hallmarks of autopha- p. Xenophagy gosomes.Moreover,theselectivityofDICER1andAGO2deg- The macroautophagy pathway has emerged as an important radation might depend on the autophagy receptor cellular factor in both innate and adaptive immunity. Many in CALCOCO2/NDP52, at least in these cell types. Finally, in C. vitro and in vivo studies have demonstrated that genes encod- elegans, AIN-1, a homolog of mammalian TNRC6A/GW182 ingmacroautophagycomponentsarerequiredforhostdefense that interacts with AGO and mediates silencing, is also against infection by bacteria, parasites and viruses. Xenophagy degradedbyautophagy.851AIN-1colocalizeswithSQST-1that is often used as a term to describe autophagy of
