AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


any number of membranes lication,butdoesnotrequiretheseproteinsonceaninfectionis encompassing microbes, all of which may be LC3 C .883,884 As established.906 C discussed above, single-membrane structures that are LC3 Finally, it is important to realize that there may be other may arise through LAP, and we cannot rule outthe possibility macroautophagy-like pathways that have yet to be character- that both LAP and macroautophagy may operate at the same ized. For example, in response to cytotoxic stress (treatment time to target the same phagosome. Indeed macroautophagy withetoposide),autophagosomesareformedinanATG5-and may facilitate phagocytosis and subsequent bacterial clearance ATG7-independent manner (see Noncanonical use of auto- (X. Li and M. Wu, submitted). Macroautophagy is not only phagy-related proteins).27Whilethisdoesnot ruleoutinvolve- induced by intracellular bacteria, but also can be activated by ment of other macroautophagy regulators/components in the extracellular bacteria such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa and formation of these autophagosomes, it does establish that the Klebsiella pneumoniae, which may involve complex mecha- canonicalmacroautophagypathwayinvolvingLC3conjugation nisms.885-887 Furthermore, macroautophagy can be induced by is not involved. In contrast, RAB9 is required for this alterna- all intracellular and extracellular Gram-negative bacteria via a tivepathway,potentiallyprovidingausefulmarkerforanalysis common mechanism involving naturally produced bacterial of these structures. Returning to xenophagy, M. tuberculosis outermembranevesicles;888,889thesevesiclesenterhumanepi- can be targeted to autophagosomes in an ATG5-independent thelialcells,resultinginautophagosomeformationandinflam- manner.907Furthermore,upto25%ofintracellularS.typhimu- matory responses mediated via the host pathogen recognition rium are observed in multi-lamellar membrane structures receptorNOD1.888 resembling autophagosomes in atg5-/- MEFs.877 These findings Viruses can also be targeted by autophagy, and in turn can indicate that an alternate macroautophagy pathway is relevant act to inhibit autophagy. For example, infection of a cell by to host-pathogen interactions. Moreover, differences are influenza and dengue viruses890 or enforced expression of the observed that depend on the cell type being studied. Yersinia hepatitis B virus C protein891 have profound consequences for pseudotuberculosis is targeted to autophagosomes where they autophagy,asviralproteinssuchasNS4Astimulateautophagy canreplicateinbonemarrow-derivedmacrophages,908whereas and protect the infected cell against apoptosis, thus extending inRAW264.7andJ774cells,bacteriaaretargetedbothtoauto- thetimeinwhichtheviruscanreplicate.Conversely,theHSV- phagosomes, and LC3-negative, single-membrane vacuoles (F. 1 ICP34.5 protein inhibits autophagy by targeting BECN1.892 Lafont,personalcommunication). WhiletheimpactofICP34.5’stargetingofBECN1onviralrep- One key consideration has recently emerged in studying licationinculturedpermissivecellsisminimal, ithas asignifi- xenophagy. Whereas the basal autophagic flux in most cells is cant impact upon pathogenesis in vivo, most likely through essential for their survival, infecting pathogens can selectively interfering with activation of CD4 C T cells,893,894 and through modulate antibacterial autophagy (i.e., xenophagy) without cell-intrinsic antiviral effects in neurons.895 Also, viral BCL2 influencing basal autophagy. This may help pathogens ensure proteins, encoded by large DNA
