AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


cells,893,894 and through modulate antibacterial autophagy (i.e., xenophagy) without cell-intrinsic antiviral effects in neurons.895 Also, viral BCL2 influencing basal autophagy. This may help pathogens ensure proteins, encoded by large DNA viruses, are able to inhibit prolonged cellular (i.e., host) survival. Thus, in the case of autophagy by interacting with BECN1565 through their BH3 xenophagy it would be prudent to monitor substrate 86 D.J.KLIONSKYETAL. (pathogen)-specific autophagic flux to understand the true leupeptin)orotherinhibitorsoflysosomalactivity(e.g.,bafilo- natureoftheperturbationofinfectingpathogensonautophagy mycinA )216topreventintralysosomaldegradationofthepro- (D. Kumar, personal communication). Furthermore, this con- tein marker. The assay simply measures the transfer of cargo sideration particularly limits the sensitivity of LC3 western from the soluble (cytosol) to the insoluble (sedimentable) cell blotsforuseinmonitoringautophagyregulation. fraction (which includes autophagic compartments), with no need for a sophisticated subcellular fractionation. Electrodis- q. Zymophagy ruption of the plasma membrane followed by centrifugation Zymophagywasoriginallydefinedasaspecificmechanismthat throughadensitycushionwasoriginallyusedtoseparatecyto- eliminates pancreatitis-activated zymogengranules in the pan- sol from sedimentable cell fractions in primary hepatocytes.913 creaticacinarcellsand,thus,preventsdeleteriouseffectsofpre- This method has also been used in various human cancer cell maturely activated and intracellularly released proteolytic linesandmouseembryonicfibroblasts,wheretheLDHseques- enzymes, when impairment of secretory function occurs.909 trationassayhasbeenvalidatedwithpharmacologicalagentsas Therefore, zymophagy is primarily considered to be a protec- wellasgeneticsilencingorknockoutofkeyfactorsoftheauto- tive mechanism implemented to sustain secretory homeostasis phagic machinery (N. Engedal, unpublished results).143,216,914 andtomitigatepancreatitis.Thepresenceofzymogengranules, Moreover,adownscalingandsimplificationofthemethodthat however,isnotonlyattributedtopancreaticacinarcells.Thus, avoidsthedensitycushionhasbeenintroduced.914Homogeni- zymophagy was also reported in activated secretory Paneth zation and sonication techniques have also been successfully cellsofthecrypts ofLieberkuhninthesmallintestine.910Note used for the LDH sequestration assay.658,915 The endogenous that one of the major functions of Paneth cells is to prevent LDHcargomarkercanbequantifiedbyanenzymaticassay,or translocation of intestinal bacteria by secreting hydrolytic by western blotting. In principle, any intracellular component enzymes and antibacterial peptides to the crypt lumens. The can be used as a cargo marker, but cytosolic enzymes having similarity in mechanisms of degradation of secretory granules lowsedimentablebackgroundsarepreferable.Membrane-asso- inthese2differenttypesofsecretorycellssustainstheconcept ciated markers are less suitable, and proteins such as LC3, oftheprotectiveroleofautophagywhen“self-inflicted”damage which are part of the sequestering system itself, will have a mayoccurduetooverreactionand/orsecretorymalfunctionin muchmorecomplexrelationshiptotheautophagicfluxthana specializedcells. purecargomarkersuchasLDH. ZymophagycanbemonitoredbyTEM,identifyingautopha- In yeast, sequestration assays are typically done by moni- gosomes containing secretory granules, by following SQSTM1 toring protease protection of an autophagosome marker or degradation by western blot, and by examining the subcellular a cargo protein. For example, prApe1, and GFP-Atg8 have localization of VMP1-EGFP, which relocates to granular areas been used to follow completion of the autophagosome.916 of the cell upon zymophagy induction. Colocalization of The relative resistance or sensitivity to an exogenous prote- PRSS1/trypsinogen (which is packaged within zymogen gran- ase in the absence
