AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


the autophagosome.916 of the cell upon zymophagy induction. Colocalization of The relative resistance or sensitivity to an exogenous prote- PRSS1/trypsinogen (which is packaged within zymogen gran- ase in the absence of detergent is an indication of whether ules) and LC3, or of GFP-ubiquitin (which is recruited to the the autophagosome (or other sequestering vesicle) is com- activatedgranules)withRFP-LC3canalsobeobservedbyindi- plete or incomplete, respectively. Thus, this method also rect or direct immunofluorescence microscopy, respectively. distinguishes between a block in autophagosome formation Active trypsin is also detectable in zymophagosomes and par- versus fusion with the vacuole. The critical issues to keep in ticipates in the early onset of acute pancreatitis (F. Fortunato mind involve the use of appropriate control strains and/or etal.,unpublisheddata). proteins, and deciding on the correct reporter protein. In addition to protease protection assays, sequestration can be monitored by fluorescence microscopy during pexophagy of 11. Autophagicsequestrationassays methanol-induced peroxisomes, using GFP-Atg8 as a pexo- Although it is useful to employ autophagic markers such as phagosome marker and BFP-SKL to label the peroxisomes. LC3 in studies of autophagy, LC3-II levels or LC3 dots cannot The vacuolar sequestration process during micropexophagy quantifyactualautophagicactivity,sinceLC3-IIisnotinvolved can also be monitored by formation of the vacuolar seques- in all cargo sequestration events, and LC3-II can be found on tering membrane stained with FM 4–64.689,697 phagophores and nonautophagosomal membranes in addition Sequestration assays can be designed to measure flux to autophagosomes. Thus, quantification of autophagic through individual steps of the autophagy pathway. For markers such as LC3 does not tell how much cargo material example, intralysosomally degraded sequestration probes has actually been sequestered inside autophagosomes. More- such as [14C]-lactate or LDH will mark prelysosomal com- over,LC3andseveralotherautophagicmarkerscannotbeused partments in the absence of degradation inhibitors. Hence, tomonitornoncanonicalautophagy.Autophagicsequestration their accumulation in such compartments can be observed assays constitute marker-independent methods to measure the when fusion with lysosomes is suppressed, for example, by sequestration of autophagic cargo into autophagosomal com- a microtubule inhibitor such as vinblastine.917 Furthermore, partments,andareamongthefewfunctionalautophagyassays lactate hydrolysis can be used to monitor the overall auto- describedtodate.Macroautophagiccargosequestrationactivity phagic pathway (autophagic lactolysis).918 One caveat, how- can be monitored using either an (electro)injected, inert cyto- ever, is that inhibitors may affect sequestration indirectly, solic marker such as [3H]-raffinose911 or an endogenous cyto- for example, by modifying the uptake and metabolism solic protein such as LDH/lactate dehydrogenase,912 in the (including protein synthesis) of autophagy-suppressive latter case along with treatment with a protease inhibitor (e.g., amino acids
