AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


modifying the uptake and metabolism solic protein such as LDH/lactate dehydrogenase,912 in the (including protein synthesis) of autophagy-suppressive latter case along with treatment with a protease inhibitor (e.g., amino acids (see Autophagy inhibitors and inducers). Under AUTOPHAGY 87 LDH en route through the autophagosome-lysosome path- method for monitoring autophagy, and in particular for dis- way can also be detected in the absence of inhibitors.216 criminating between conditions where the autophagosome is A variation of this approach applicable to mammalian cells complete (but not fused with the lysosome/vacuole) or open includes live cell imaging. Autophagy induction is monitored (that is, a phagophore). These assays can also be modified to asthemovementofcargo,suchasmitochondria,toGFP-LC3- measureautophagicflux. colocalizing compartments, and then fusion/flux is measured bydeliveryofcargotolysosomalcompartments.331,919Inaddi- 12. Turnoverofautophagiccompartments tion, sequestration of fluorescently tagged cytosolic proteins into membranous compartments can be measured, as fluores- Inhibitorsofautophagicsequestration(e.g.,aminoacids,3-MA centpunctabecomeresistanttothedetergentdigitonin.920Use or wortmannin) can be used to monitor the disappearance of ofmultipletimepointsandmonitoringcolocalizationofapar- autophagicelements(phagophores,autophagosomes,autolyso- ticularcargowithGFP-LC3andlysosomescanalsobeused to somes) to estimate their half-life by TEM morphometry/stere- assess sequestration of cargo with autophagosomes as well as ology.Theturnoveroftheautophagosomeortheautolysosome deliverytolysosomes.758 will be differentially affected if fusion or intralysosomal degra- In the Drosophila fat body, the localization of free cytosolic dation is inhibited.12,14,25,924 The duration of such experiments mCherrychangesfromadiffusetoapunctatepatterninanAtg is usually only a few hours;therefore, long-term side effects or gene-dependent manner, and these mCherry dots colocalize declining effectiveness of the inhibitors can be avoided. It with the lysosomal marker Lamp1-GFP during starvation (G. should be noted that fluorescence microscopy has also been Juhasz,unpublisheddata).Thus,theredistributionoffreecyto- used to monitor the half-life of autophagosomes, monitoring solic mCherry may be used to follow bulk, nonselective auto- GFP-LC3inthepresenceandabsenceofbafilomycinA orfol- phagyduetoitsstabilityandaccumulationinautolysosomes. lowing GFP-LC3 after starvation and recovery in amino acid- Cautionary notes: The electro-injection of radiolabeled richmedium(seeAtg8/LC3detectionandquantification).16,925 probesistechnicallydemanding,buttheuseofanendogenous Cautionarynotes:Theinhibitoryeffectmustbestrongand cytosolicproteinprobeisverysimpleandrequiresnopretreat- the efficiency of the inhibitor needs to be tested under the mentofthecellsotherthanwithaproteaseinhibitor.Another experimental conditions to be employed. Cycloheximide is concernwithelectro-injectionisthatitcanaffectcellularphysi- sometimes used as an autophagy inhibitor, but its use in long- ology, so it is necessary to verifythat the cells behave properly termexperimentsisproblematicbecauseofthemanypotential under control situations such as amino acid deprivation. An indirect effects. Cycloheximide inhibits translational elonga- alternate approach for incorporating exogenous proteins into tion, and therefore protein synthesis. In addition, it decreases mammalian cell cytosol is to use “scrape-loading,” a method theefficiencyofproteindegradationinseveralcelltypes(A.M. thatworksforcellsthatareadherenttotissuecultureplates.921 Cuervo, personal communication) including hematopoietic Finally, these assays work well with hepatocytes but may be cells (A. Edinger, personal communication). Treatment with problematicwithothercelltypes,anditcanbedifficulttoload cycloheximide causes a potent increase in MTORC1 activity, thecellwhileretainingtheintegrityofthecompartmentsinthe whichcandecreaseautophagyinpartasaresultoftheincrease
