AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


and LysoSensor Blue,332 or tagged versions of the gradient where their densities are equal to those of the LC3 and LAMP1 (K. Macleod, personal communication) or gradient.938 CD63331 as a measure of the fusion of autophagosomes with Thefractionationoforganellescanalsobeevaluatedbypro- lysosomes.Itisalsopossibletotraceautophagiceventsbyvisu- tein-correlation-profiling, a quantitative mass spectrometry- alizing the pH-dependent excitation changes of the coral pro- based proteomics approach. Similar to the biochemical assays tein Keima.760 This quantitative technique is capable of described above, gradient profiles of marker proteins can be monitoringthefusionofautophagosomeswithlysosomes,that recordedandcomparedtoproteinsofinterest.362Comparedto is, the formation of an autolysosome, and the assay does not classical biochemical approaches, protein-correlation-profiling dependontheanalysisofLC3. allows the proteome-wide recording of protein gradient Cautionary notes: Some experiments require the use of profiles. inhibitors (e.g., 3-MA or wortmannin) or overexpression of Particle populations in subcellular fractions evaluated with proteins(e.g.,RAB7dominantnegativemutants)thatmayalso quantitative biochemical and centrifugational approaches can affecttheendocyticpathwayorthedeliveryofDQ-BSAtolyso- also be studied with quantitative morphological methods. somes (e.g., wortmannin causes the swelling of late endo- Detailed morphological study of the particle populations somes931). In this case, the lysosomal compartment can be involved in the autophagic process usually requires the use of labeled with DQ-BSA overnight before treating the cells with EM. The thin sections required for such studies pose major thedrugs,orpriortothetransfection. sampling problems in both intact cells942 and subcellular frac- means for monitoring lysosomal protease function and can fromeach0.1mlofpelletvolume,soanypracticalsamplesize alsobeusedtofollowthefusionofamphisomes withthelyso- is an infinitesimally small subsample of the total sample.938 some. Colocalization of autophagosomes (fluorescently tagged However,through homogenization andresuspension,complex LC3)withlysosomalproteinsordyescanalsobemonitored. andheterogeneouscomponentsofsubcellularfractionsbecome randomly distributed throughout the fraction volume. There- fore, any aliquot of that volume can be considered a random 14. Tissuefractionation sample of the whole volume. What is necessary is to conserve Thestudyofautophagyintheorgansoflargeranimals,inlarge this property of subcellular fractions in the generation of a numbers of organisms with very similar characteristics, or in specimen that can be examined with the electron microscope. tissue culture cells provides an opportunity to use tissue frac- This can be done with the use of a pressure filtration proce- tionationtechniquesashasbeenpossiblewithautophagyinrat dure.942,938Becauseofthethinnessofthesections,multiplesec- liver.35,54,932-937 Because of their sizes (smaller than nuclei but tions of individual particles are possible so morphometric/ larger than membrane fragments [microsomes]), differential stereologicalmethods942mustbeusedtodeterminethevolume centrifugation can be used to obtain a subcellular fraction occupied by a given class of particles, as well as the size distri- enriched in mitochondria and organelles of the autophagy- butionandaveragesizeoftheparticleclass.Fromthisinforma- lysosomalsystem,whichcanthenbesubjectedtodensitygradi- tion the number of particles in a specific particle class can be ent centrifugation to enrich autophagosomes, amphisomes, calculated.944Examinationofindividualprofilesgivesinforma- autolysosomes and lysosomes.35,54,937-941 Any
