AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


also determine autophagy alterations in animal models of diseases affecting the nervous system.953,954 Alternatively, con- focal laser scanning microscopy, which makes it possible to 15. Analysesinvivo obtain numerous sections and substantial data about spatial Monitoring autophagic flux in vivo or in organs is one of the localizationfeatures,canbeasuitablesystemforstudyingauto- least developed areas at present, and ideal methods relative to phagic structures (especially for whole mount embryo in vivo thetechniques possible with cell culture may not exist.Impor- analysis).956 In addition, this method can be used to obtain tantly, the level of basal autophagy, time course of autophagic quantitative data through densitometric analysis of fluorescent induction,andthebioavailabilityofautophagy-stimulatingand signals.957 -inhibiting drugs is likelytissue specific. Moreover,basal auto- Another possibility is immunohistochemical staining, an phagy or sensitivity to autophagic induction may vary with important procedure that may be applicable to human studies 90 D.J.KLIONSKYETAL. aswellconsideringtheroleofautophagyinneurodegeneration, notes). This type of analysis can also be done with liver, by myopathies and cardiac disease where samples may be limited comparing the LC3-II level in untreated liver (obtained by a to biopsy/autopsy tissue. Immunodetection of LC3 as definite partial hepatectomy) to that following subsequent exposure to puncta is possible in paraffin-embedded tissue sections and chloroquine (V. Skop, Z. Papackova and M. Cahov(cid:2)a, personal fresh frozen tissue, by either IHC or immunofluores- communication). Additional reporter assays to monitor auto- cence;197,958-964 however, this methodology has not received phagic flux in vivo need to be developed, including tandem extensive evaluation, and does not lend itself well to dynamic fluorescent-LC3transgenicmice,orviralvectorstoexpressthis assays. Other autophagic substrates can be evaluated via IHC construct in vivo in localized areas. One of the challenges of andincludeSQSTM1,NBR1,ubiquitinatedinclusionsandpro- studyingautophagicfluxinintactanimalsisthedemonstration tein aggregates. Similarly, autophagy can be evaluated by mea- of cargo clearance, but studies of fly intestines that combine suring levels of these autophagic substrates via traditional sophisticatedmosaicmutantcellgeneticswithimagingofmito- immunoblot; however, their presence or absence needs to be chondrialclearancerevealthatsuchanalysesarepossible.764 cautiouslyinterpretedassomeofthesesubstratescanaccumu- Another organ particularly amenable to ex vivo analysis is latewitheitheranincreaseoradecreaseinautophagicflux(see the heart, with rodent hearts easily subjected to perfusion by SQSTM1 and related LC3 binding protein turnover assays). themethodsofLangendorffestablishedin1895(forreviewsee Bone marrow transfer has been used to document in vivo the ref.978).Autophagyhasbeenmonitoredinperfusedhearts,979 role of autophagy in the reverse cholesterol transport pathway whereitisthoughttobeanimportantprocessinseveralmodes from peripheral tissues or cells (e.g., macrophages) to the liver of cardioprotection against ischemic injury.980 It should be for secretion in bile and for excretion,965 and a study shows noted that baseline autophagy levels (as indicated by LC3-II) that TGM2 (transglutaminase 2) protein levels
