AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


24 h, and starvation is a potent stimulus for the activation of tissue, and colocalizes with LC3-II.991 The number of autophagy.(c)Thebioavailabilityoftheagentneedstobecon- MDC- and LC3-II-positive structures changes when auto- sidered. For example, many inhibitors such as bafilomycin A phagy is pharmacologically up- or downregulated.991,992 orchloroquinehaverelativelypoorbioavailabilitytothecentral Whether this method can also be used in adult animals nervous system. To overcome this problem, intracerebroven- needs to be determined. Furthermore, it should be kept in tricularinjectioncanbeperformed. mind that staining with MDC is not, by itself, a sufficient A dramatic increase of intracellular free poly-unsaturated method for monitoring autophagy (see Acidotropic dyes). fatty acid levels can be observed by proton nuclear magnetic Anotherapproachthatcanbeusedinvivoinbraintissueis resonancespectroscopyin living pancreatic cancer cells within tostainforlysosomalenzymes.Insituationswhereanincrease 4 h of autophagy inhibition by omeprazole, which interacts in autophagosomes has been shown (e.g., by immunostaining withtheV-ATPaseandprobablyinhibitsautophagosome-lyso- for LC3 and immunoblotting for LC3-II), it is important to some fusion. Omeprazole is one of the most frequently pre- show whether this is due to a shutdown of the lysosomal sys- scribed drugs worldwide and shows only minor side effects tem, causing an accumulation of autophagosomes, or whether eveninhigherdoses.Protonnuclearmagneticresonancespec- this is due to a true increase in autophagic flux. The standard troscopy is a noninvasive method that can be also applied as methodsdescribedaboveforinvitroresearch,suchasthestudy localized spectroscopy in magnetic resonance tomography and of clearance of a substrate, are difficult to use in vivo, but if it thereforeopensthepossibilityofanoninvasive,clinicallyappli- can be demonstrated that the increase in autophagosomes is cable autophagy monitoring method, although technical issues accompanied by an increase in lysosomes, this makes it very stillhavetobesolved.997 likely that there has been a true increase in autophagic flux. When analyzing autophagic flux in vivo, one major limita- or CTSD) or by classical histochemistry to reveal their activity not always activate autophagy at the same time. To improve (e.g.,ACP/acidphosphataseorHEX/b-hexosaminidase).993-995 thestatisticalrelevanceandavoidunclearresults,theseexperi- Some biochemical assays may be used to at least provide ments should be repeated more than once, with each experi- indirect correlative data relating to autophagy, in particular ment including several animals. Induction of autophagy in a whenexaminingtheroleofautophagyincelldeath.Forexam- time-dependent manner by fasting mice for different times ple, cellular viability is related to high CTSB activity and low requires appropriate caution. Mice are nocturnal animals, so CTSD activities.996 Therefore, the appearance of the opposite they preferentially move and eat during the night, while they levels of activities may be one indication of the initiation of mostlyrestduringdaylight.Therefore,insuchexperimentsitis autophagy (lysosome)-dependent cell death. The question of
