AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


if a protein is a CMA substrate (see ref. 1106 for order to establish a death-mediating role of autophagy, as this experimentaldetails): process typically promotes cell survival. These include a clear a. Analysis of the amino acid sequence of the protein to demonstrationofautophagicfluxasdescribedinthisarticle,as identifythepresenceofaKFERQ-relatedmotifthatisan well as verification that inhibition of autophagy prevents cell absoluterequirementforallCMAsubstrates.1107 death(claim[b]above;ifusingaknockdownapproach,atleast b. Colocalization studies with lysosomal markers (typically 2 ATG genes should be targeted), and that other mechanisms LAMP2A and/or LysoTracker) to identify a fraction of AUTOPHAGY 95 the protein associated with lysosomes. The increase in dependingonthecelltype(thisisduetothefactthatthe association of the putative substrate under conditions observedstimulationofCMAisactuallyacompensatory that upregulate CMA (such as prolonged starvation) or response to the blockage of HSP90AA1 in lysosomes, upon blockage of lysosomal proteases (to prevent the and different cells activate different compensatory degradationoftheprotein)helpssupportthehypothesis responses).1111 thattheproteinofinterestisaCMAsubstrate.However, f. The most conclusive way to prove that a protein is a associationwithlysosomesisnecessarybutnotsufficient CMA substrate is by reconstituting its direct transloca- to consider a protein an authentic CMA substrate, tion into lysosomes using a cell-free system.1106 This because proteins delivered by other pathways to lyso- method isonlypossible when theproteinof interest can somes will also behave in a similar manner. A higher bepurified,anditrequirestheisolationofthepopulation degree of confidence can be attained if the association is of lysosomes active for CMA. Internalization of thepro- preferentially with the subset of lysosomes active for tein of interest inside lysosomes upon incubation with CMA (i.e., those containing HSPA8 in their lumen), the isolated organelle can be monitored using protease which can be separated from other lysosomes following protection assays (in which addition of an exogenous publishedprocedures.948 proteaseremovestheproteinboundtothecytosolicside c. Co-immunoprecipitation of the protein of interest with oflysosomes,whereasitisinaccessibletotheproteinthat cytosolic HSPA8. Due to the large number of proteins has reached the lysosomal lumen; note that pre-incuba- that interact with this chaperone, it is usually better to tion of lysosomes with lysosomal protease inhibitors performaffinityisolationwiththeproteinofinterestand before adding the substrate is required to prevent the then analyze the isolated proteins for the presence of degradation of the translocated substrate inside lyso- HSPA8ratherthanviceversa. somes).1112 The use of exogenous protease requires d. Co-immunoprecipitation of the protein of interest with numerous controls (see ref. 1106) to guarantee that the LAMP2A.1108 Due to the fact that the only antibodies amount of protease is sufficient to remove all the sub- specific for the LAMP2A variant (the only 1 of the 3 strateoutsidelysosomes,butwillnotpenetrateinsidethe LAMP2 variants involved in CMA92,1109) are generated lysosomal lumen upon breaking the lysosomal
