AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


to remove all the sub- specific for the LAMP2A variant (the only 1 of the 3 strateoutsidelysosomes,butwillnotpenetrateinsidethe LAMP2 variants involved in CMA92,1109) are generated lysosomal lumen upon breaking the lysosomal againstthecytosolictailofLAMP2A,wherethesubstrate membrane. alsobinds,itisnecessarytoaffinityisolatetheproteinof Thedifficultiesintheadjustmentoftheamountofprotease interest and then analyze for the presence of LAMP2A. have led to the development of a second method that is more Immunoblotfor LAMP2A in theprecipitate can only be suitable for laboratories that have no previous experience with done with the antibodies specific for LAMP2A and not these procedures. In this case, the substrate is incubated with justthosethatrecognizethelumenalportion ofthepro- lysosomesuntreatedorpreviouslyincubated with inhibitorsof tein that is identical in the other LAMP2 variants. If the lysosomal proteases, and then uptake is determined as the dif- protein of interest is abundant inside cells, co-immuno- ference of protein associated with lysosomes not incubated precipitationswithLAMP2Acanbedoneintotalcellular withinhibitors(inwhichtheonlyremainingproteinwillbethe lysates,butforlowabundancecellularproteins,prepara- one associated with the cytosolic side of the lysosomal mem- tion of a membrane fraction (enriched in lysosomes) by brane)andthoseincubatedwiththeproteaseinhibitors(which differential centrifugation may facilitate the detection of contain both the protein bound to the membrane and that thepopulationoftheproteinboundtoLAMP2A. translocatedintothelumen).1113 e. Selective upregulation and blockage of CMA to demon- Confidence that the lysosomal internalization is by CMA strate that degradationofthe proteinof interestchanges increases if the uptake of the substrate can be competed with with these manipulations. Selective chemical inhibitors proteins previously identified as substrates for CMA (e.g., for CMA are not currently available. Note that general GAPDH/glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase or inhibitors of lysosomal proteases (e.g., bafilomycin A , RNASE1/ribonucleaseA,bothcommerciallyavailableaspurified NH Cl,leupeptin)alsoblockthedegradationofproteins proteins),butisnotaffectedbythepresenceofsimilaramounts delivered to lysosomes by other autophagic and endoso- ofnonsubstrateproteins(suchasSERPINB/ovalbuminorPPIA/ mal pathways. The most selective way to block CMA is cyclophilinA).Blockageofuptakebypre-incubationofthelyso- byknockdownofLAMP2A,whichcausesthisproteinto someswithantibodiesagainstthecytosolictailofLAMP2Aalso become a limiting factor.92 The other components reinforcesthehypothesisthattheproteinisaCMAsubstrate.It involvedinCMA,includingHSPA8,HSP90AA1,GFAP, shouldbenotedthatseveralcommerciallyavailablekitsforlyso- and EEF1A/eF1a, are all multifunctional cellular pro- someisolationseparateamixtureoflysosomalpopulationsand downs. Overexpression of LAMP2A1108 is also a better whichlimitstheiruseforCMAuptakeassays. approach to upregulate CMA than the use of chemical In other instances, rather than determining if a particular modulators. The 2 compounds demonstrated to affect proteinisaCMAsubstrate,theinterestmaybetoanalyzepos- degradation of long-lived proteins in lysosomes,1110 sible changes in CMA activity under different conditions or in 6-aminonicotinamideandgeldanamycin,lackselectivity, response to different modifications. We enumerate here the as they affect many other cellular processes. In addition, methods,fromlowertohighercomplexity,thatcanbeutilized in the case of geldanamycin, the effect on CMA can be to measure CMA in cultured cells and in tissues (see ref. 1106 the opposite (inhibition rather than stimulation) fordetailedexperimentalprocedures). 96 D.J.KLIONSKYETAL. a. Measurementofchangesintheintracellularratesofdeg- this procedure.1114 As for any other fluorescence probe radation of long-lived
