AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


cultured cells and in tissues (see ref. 1106 the opposite (inhibition rather than stimulation) fordetailedexperimentalprocedures). 96 D.J.KLIONSKYETAL. a. Measurementofchangesintheintracellularratesofdeg- this procedure.1114 As for any other fluorescence probe radation of long-lived proteins, when combined with based on analysis of intracellular “puncta” it is essential inhibitors of other autophagic pathways, can provide a toincludecontrolstoconfirmthatthepunctaareindeed firstdemonstrationinsupportofchangesthataredueto lysosomes (colocalization with LysoTracker or LAMPs CMA.Forexample,CMAisdefinedaslysosomaldegra- and lack of colocalization with markers of cytosolic dation upregulated in response to serum removal but aggregationsuchasubiquitin)anddonotreachthelyso- insensitivetoPtdIns3Kinhibitors. somes through other autophagic pathways (insensitivity b. Measurement of levels of CMA components is insuffi- to PtdIns3K inhibitors and sensitivity to LAMP2A cienttoconcludechangesinCMAbecausethisdoesnot knockdownaregoodcontrolsinthisrespect). provide functional information, and changes in CMA e. Direct measurement of CMA using in vitro cell free components can also occur under other conditions. assays. Although the introduction of the fluorescent However, analysis of the levels of LAMP2A can be used probes should facilitate measurement of CMA in many to support changes in CMA detected by other proce- instances, they are not applicable for tissue samples. In dures. Cytosolic levels of HSPA8 remain constant and addition, because the probes measure binding of sub- arenotlimitingforCMA,thusprovidingnoinformation stratetolysosomalmembranesitisimportanttoconfirm about this pathway. Likewise, changes in total cellular that enhanced binding does not result from defective way unless they also affect their lysosomal levels (i.e., most efficient way to determine primary changes in conditionsinwhichLAMP2Aismassivelyoverexpressed CMA independently of changes in other proteolytic sys- lead to its targeting to the plasma membrane where it temsinthecells.Theseinvitroassaysarethesameones cannotfunctioninCMA).Itisadvisablethatchanges in describedintheprevioussection ontheidentificationof the levels of these 2 CMA components are confirmed to proteinsassubstratesofCMA,butareperformedinthis occur in lysosomes, either by colocalization with lyso- casewithpurifiedproteinspreviouslycharacterizedtobe somal markers when using image-based procedures or substrates for CMA. In this case the substrate protein is byperformingimmunoblotofalysosomalenrichedfrac- alwaysthesame,andwhatchangesisthesourceoflyso- tion (purification of this fraction does not require the somes (from the different tissues or cells that are to be largeamountsofcells/tissuenecessaryfortheisolationof compared).Asdescribedintheprevioussection,binding thesubsetoflysosomesactiveforCMA). and uptake can be analyzed separately using lysosomes c. Tracking changes in the subset of lysosomes active for previously treated or not with protease inhibitors. The CMA. This group of lysosomes is defined as those con- analysis of the purity of the lysosomal fractions prior to taining HSPA8 in their lumen (note that LAMP2A is performing functional analysis is essential to conclude presentinbothlysosomesthatareactiveandinactivefor that changes in the efficiency to take up the substrates CMA,anditisthepresenceofHSPA8thatconfersCMA results from changes in CMA rather than from different capability).Immunogoldorimmunofluorescenceagainst levels of lysosomes in the isolated fractions. Control of these
