AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


changes in the efficiency to take up the substrates CMA,anditisthepresenceofHSPA8thatconfersCMA results from changes in CMA rather than from different capability).Immunogoldorimmunofluorescenceagainst levels of lysosomes in the isolated fractions. Control of these 2 proteins (LAMP2A and HSPA8) makes it possi- the integrity of the lysosomal membrane and sufficiency ble to quantify changes in the levels of these lysosomes oftheproteasesarealsoessentialtodiscardthepossibil- present ata given time, which correlates well with CMA ity that degradation is occurring outside lysosomes activity.948 because of leakage, or that accumulation of substrates d. Analysis of lysosomal association of fluorescent artificial inside lysosomes is due to enhanced uptake rather than CMA substrates. Two different fluorescent probes have todecreaseddegradation. been generated to track changes in CMA activity in cul- Cautionarynotes:Thediscoveryofanotherselectiveform tured cells using immunofluorescence or flow cytometry of protein degradation in mammals named endosomal analysis.948TheseprobescontaintheKFERQandcontext microautophagy (e-MI)1115 has made it necessary to recon- sequences in frame with photoswitchable or photoacti- sider someofthecriteriathat appliedin thepast for thedefi- vated fluorescent proteins. Activation of CMA results in nition of a protein as a CMA substrate. The KFERQ-like the mobilization of a fraction of the cytosolic probe to motif, previously considered to be exclusive for CMA, is also lysosomesandthesubsequentchangefromadiffusetoa usedtomediateselectivetargetingofcytosolicproteinstothe punctate pattern. CMA activity can be quantified as the surfaceoflateendosomes.Oncethere,substratescanbeinter- number of fluorescent puncta per cell or as the decay in nalized in microvesicles that form from the surface of these fluorescenceactivityovertimebecauseofdegradationof organelles in an ESCRT-dependent manner.HSPA8 has been the artificial substrate. Because the assay does not allow identifiedasthechaperonethatbindsthissubsetofsubstrates measuring accumulation of the substrate (which must and directly interacts with lipids in the late endosomal mem- unfold for translocation), it is advisable to perform a brane,actingthusasareceptorforcytosolicsubstratesinthis time-course analysis to determine gradual changes in compartment. At a practical level, to determine if a KFERQ- CMAactivity.Antibodiesagainst thefluorescentprotein containingproteinisbeingdegradedbyCMAore-MIthefol- in combination with inhibitors of lysosomal proteases lowingcriteriacanbeapplied:(a)Inhibitionoflysosomalpro- can be used to monitor accumulation of the probe in teolysis (for example with NH Cl and leupeptin) blocks lysosomes over a period of time, but both the photo- degradation by both pathways. (b) Knockdown of LAMP2A switchable andtheunmodifiedprobewillbedetectedby inhibits CMA but not e-MI. (c) Knockdown of components AUTOPHAGY 97 of ESCRTI and II (e.g., VPS4 and TSG101) inhibits e-MI but therearecurrentlynospecificmarkersorinhibitorsavailableto not CMA. (d) Interfering with the capability to unfold the study this process specifically, but the involvement of BAG3 substrate protein blocks its degradation by CMA, but does and ubiquitination of client proteins is highly suggestive of notaffecte-MIoftheprotein.Inthisrespect,solubleproteins, CASAactivity. oligomers
