AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


form of autophagy ground labeling unless narrow bandpass filters are used. How- whereby substrate proteins are ubiquitinated and targeted for ever, in the presence of vinblastine, which blocks fusion with lysosomal degradation by chaperone and co-chaperone pro- lysosomes,MDClabelingincreases,suggestingthatunderthese teins.1116 The substrate protein does not require a KFERQ conditionsMDCcanlabellate-stageautophagosomes.989Along motif, which differentiates CASA from CMA. In CASA the these lines, cells that overexpress a dominant negative version substrate protein is recognized by the chaperone HSPA8, the ofRAB7(theT22Nmutant)showcolocalizationofthisprotein small heat shock proteins HSPB6 and HSPB8, the ubiquitin with MDC; in this case fusion with lysosomes is also ligaseSTUB1/CHIP,whichformsamultidomaincomplexwith blocked1136indicatingthatMDCdoesnotjustlabellysosomes. the co-chaperone BAG3, and the receptor proteins SYNPO2/ Nevertheless,MDClabelingcouldbeconsideredtobeanindi- myopodin(synaptopodin2)andSQSTM1.Followingubiquiti- catorofautophagywhentheincreasedlabelingofcellularcom- nation the substrate protein is loaded onto the CASA machin- partments by this dye is prevented by treatment with specific ery. SYNPO2 and SQSTM1 then bind to core components of autophagyinhibitors. theautophagosome(VPS18andLC3,respectively)resultingin Overall, staining with MDC or its derivative monodansyla- engulfment of the substrate protein and associated multido- mylamine (MDH)1129 is not, by itself, a sufficient method for main complex into the autophagosome, and subsequent lyso- monitoring autophagy. Similarly, LysoTracker Red, Neutral somaldegradation.1116,1126 Red and acridine orange are not ideal markers for autophagy To date, CASA has only been reported in muscle with the because they primarily detect lysosomes and an increase in FLN(filamin)familyofproteinsbeingthemoststudiedtarget. lysosomesizeornumbercouldreflectanincreaseinnonprofes- However, CASA may also be capable of targeting nonmuscle sionalphagocytosis(oftenseeninembryonictissues1137)rather proteins for degradation as demonstrated by an in vitro study than autophagy. These markers are, however, useful for moni- onBAG3-mediateddegradationofmutantHTT.1127,1128 toringselectiveautophagywhenusedinconjunctionwithpro- in CASA is very similar to that in other forms of autophagy colocalization of mitochondria with both GFP-LC3 and 98 D.J.KLIONSKYETAL. Figure26.LysoTrackerRedstainslysosomesandcanbeusedtomonitorautophagyinDrosophila.LivefatbodytissuesfromDrosophilawerestainedwithLysoTracker Red(red)andHoechst33342(blue)tostainthenucleus.Tissueswereisolatedfromfed(left)or3-hstarved(right)animals.Scalebar:25mm.Thisfigurewasmodified fromdatapresentedinref.280,DevelopmentalCell,7,ScottRC,SchuldinerO,NeufeldTP,Roleandregulationofstarvation-inducedautophagyintheDrosophilafat LysoTracker Red can be used as evidence of autophagic cargo A recently developed dye for monitoring autophagy, Cyto- delivery to lysosomes. Moreover, LysoTracker Red has been ID,stainsvesicularstructuresshortlyafteraminoaciddepriva- used to provide correlative data on autophagy in D. mela- tion,whichextensivelycolocalizewithRFP-LC3-positivestruc- nogaster fat body cells (Fig. 26).279,280 However, additional tures, while colocalizing partially with lysosomal probes.1139 assays,suchasGFP-Atg8/LC3fluorescenceandEM,shouldbe Moreover, unlike MDC, Cyto-ID does not show background used to substantiate results obtained with acidotropic dyes fluorescenceundercontrolconditionsandthe2dyescolocalize whenever possible to rule out the possibility that LAP is only marginally. Furthermore, the Cyto-ID signal responds to involved (see Noncanonical use of autophagy-related proteins). well-knownautophagymodulators.Therefore,thisamphiphilic Finally, one important caution when co-imaging with Lyso- dye,whichpartitionsinhydrophobicenvironments,mayprove TrackerRedandagreen-fluorescingmarker(e.g.,GFP-LC3or moreselectiveforautophagicvacuolesthanthepreviouslydis- MitoTracker Green) is that it is necessary to control for cussedlysosomotropicdyes. rapid red-to-green photoconversion of the LysoTracker, which With the above caveats in mind,
