AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


capable of compromising auto- centrations should be empirically determined for each cell phagy without any incremental damage when lysosomal func- type.231 tion is altered by lysosomal inhibitors (e.g., chloroquine or Although these various agents can inhibit different steps of bafilomycinA );235however,betulinicacidisnotlysosomespe- the autophagic pathway, their potential side effects must be cific,andwillaffectotherorganellessuchasmitochondria. considered in interpretation of the secondary consequences of Some data suggest that particular nanomaterials may also autophagy inhibition, especially in long-term studies. For be novel inhibitors of autophagy, by as yet unidentified example, lysosomotropic compounds can increase the rate of mechanisms.1172 autophagosome formation by inhibiting MTORC1, as activa- Itisworthnotingthatlysosomalproteasesfallinto3general tion of lysosomally localized MTORC1 depends on an active groups, cysteine, aspartic acid and serine proteases. Therefore, V-ATPase (as well as RRAG GTPases162).487,1180 Along these thefactthatleupeptin,aserineandcysteineproteaseinhibitor, lines, chloroquine treatment may cause an apparent increase has little or no effect does not necessarily indicate that lyso- in the formation of autophagosomes possibly by blocking somaldegradationisnottakingplace;acombinationofleupep- fusion with the lysosome (F.C. Dorsey and J.L. Cleveland, per- tin, pepstatin A and E-64d may be a more effective treatment. sonal communication). This conclusion is supported by the However, it should also be pointed out that these protease finding that chloroquine reduces the colocalization of LC3 inhibitors can exert inhibitory effects not only on lysosomal and LysoTracker despite the presence of autophagosomes and proteases, but also on cytosolic proteases; that is, degradation lysosomes(A.K.Simon,personalcommunication). Thismech- of proteins might be blocked through inhibition of cytosolic anism might be cell-type specific, as other studies report that instead of lysosomal proteases. Conversely, it should be noted chloroquine prevents autolysosome clearance and degradation thatMG132(Z-leu-leu-leu-al)anditsrelatedpeptidealdehydes of cargo content, but not autophagosome-lysosome are commonly used as proteasomal inhibitors, but they can fusion.1181-1184 Concanamycin A blocks sorting of vacuolar also inhibit certain lysosomal hydrolases such as cathepsins proteins in plant cells in addition to inhibiting vacuolar acidi- not rule out the possibility of involvement of the autophagy- tion of autophagic compartments, many of these drugs seem lysosomal system. Therefore, even if MG132 is effective in to stimulate sequestration in many cell types, especially in inhibitingautophagy,itisimportanttoconfirmtheresultusing vivo.79,326,924,1154,1158,1186-1190 Although it is clear why these more specific proteasomal inhibitors such as lactacystin or drugs cause the accumulation of autophagic compartments, it epoxomicin.Finally,therearesignificantdifferencesincellper- is not known why they stimulate sequestration. One possibil- meability among protease inhibitors. For example, E-64d is ity, at least for hepatocytes, is that the inhibition of protein membrane permeable, whereas leupeptin and pepstatin
