AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


they stimulate sequestration. One possibil- meability among protease inhibitors. For example, E-64d is ity, at least for hepatocytes, is that the inhibition of protein membrane permeable, whereas leupeptin and pepstatin A are degradation reduces the intracellular amino acid pool, which not (although there are derivatives that display greater perme- in turn upregulates sequestration. A time-course study of the ability such as pepstatin A methyl ester).1174 Thus, when ana- changes inboththeintra-andextracellularfractions may pro- lyzing whether a protein is an autophagy substrate, caution vide accurate information regarding amino acid metabolism. should be taken in utilizing these protease inhibitors to block For these various reasons, it is important to include appropri- autophagy. ate controls; along these lines, MTOR inhibitors such as rapa- As with the PtdIns3K inhibitors, many autophagy-suppres- mycin or amino acid deprivation can be utilized as positive sivecompoundsarenotspecific.Forexample,okadaicacid1175 controls for inducing autophagy. In many cell types, however, is a powerful general inhibitor of both type 1 (PPP1) and type the induction of autophagy by rapamycin is relatively slow, or 2A(PPP2)proteinphosphatases.1176BafilomycinA andother transient,allowing moretime for indirect effects. compounds that raise the lysosomal pH may have indirect Several small molecule inhibitors, including torin1, PP242, effects on any acidified compartments. Moreover, treatment KU-0063794, PI-103 and NVP-BEZ235, have been developed withbafilomycinA forextendedperiods(18h)cancausesig- thattargetthecatalyticdomainofMTORinanATP-competi- nificant disruption of the mitochondrial network in cultured tivemanner.225,1191-1195Incomparisontorapamycin,thesecat- cells (M.E. Gegg, personal communication), and either bafilo- alytic MTOR inhibitors are more potent, and hence are mycin A or concanamycin A cause swelling of the Golgi in stronger autophagy agonists in most cell lines.341,1193,1196 The plants,1177 and increase cell death by apoptosis in cancer cells use of these second-generation MTOR inhibitors may reveal (V.A. Rao, personal communication). Furthermore, bafilomy- thatsomereportsofMTOR-independentautophagymayactu- cin A may have off-target effects on the cell, particularly on ally reflect the use of the relatively weak inhibitor rapamycin. MTORC1.487,527,1178BafilomycinA isoftenusedatafinalcon- Furthermore, the use of these compounds has revealed a role centration of 100 nM, but much lower concentrations such as for MTORC1 and MTORC2 as independent regulators of 1nM may be sufficientto inhibit autophagic-lysosomal degra- autophagy.1197 dationandarelesslikelytocauseindirecteffects.157,225,1179For Neurons,however,seem to be aparticular case in regard to example, in pulmonary A549 epithelial cells bafilomycin A theirresponsetoMTORinhibitors.Rapamycinmayfailtoacti- exhibits concentration-dependent effects on cellular vateautophagy incultured primary neurons, despite itspotent AUTOPHAGY 101 stimulation of autophagy in some cancer cell lines,75,544,1198 In most contexts, it is advisable when using a knockout or Interestingly, both rapamycin and catalytic MTOR inhibitors knockdown approach to examine multiple autophagy-related
