AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


more than one methodology, tively regulates the transcription of ATG genes (most notably including molecular methods, is desirable. Rapamycin is ATG81233) and, via deacetylation of Atg3, controls Atg8 less effective at inhibiting MTOR and inducing autophagy lipidation.1234 than catalytic inhibitors; however, it must be kept in mind It isalso possible, depending on the organism or cellsystem, that catalytic inhibitors also affect MTORC2. The main to modulate autophagy through transcriptional control. For concern with pharmacological manipulations is pleiotropic AUTOPHAGY 103 effects of the compound being used. Accordingly, genetic 4. Experimentalsystems confirmation is preferred whenever possible. Throughouttheseguidelineswehavenotedthatitisnotpossi- bletostateexplicitrulesthatcanbeappliedtoallexperimental systems.Forexample,sometechniquesmaynotworkinpartic- 3. Basalautophagy ularcelltypesororganisms.Ineachcase,efficacyofautophagy promoters, inhibitors and measurement techniques must be BasallevelsofLC3-IIorGFP-LC3punctamaychange accord- empiricallydetermined,whichiswhyitisimportanttoinclude ingtothetimeafteradditionoffreshmediumtocells,andthis appropriate controls. Differences may also be seen between in can lead to misinterpretations of what basal autophagy means. vivo or perfused organ studies and cell culture analyses. For This is particularly important when comparing the levels of example,INS/insulinhasnoeffectonproteolysisinsuspended basal autophagy between different cell populations (such as rathepatocytes,incontrasttotheresultwithperfusedratliver. knockout versus wild-type clones). If cells are very sensitive to TheINS/insulineffectreappears,however,whenisolatedhepa- nutrient supply and display a high variability of basal auto- tocytesareincubatedinstationarydishes1253,1254orareallowed phagy,thebestexperimentalconditionistomonitorthelevels tosettledownonthematrix(D.H€aussinger,personalcommu- ofbasalautophagyatdifferenttimesaftertheadditionoffresh nication). The reason for this might be that autophagy regula- medium. One example is the chicken lymphoma DT40 cells tion byinsulin and some amino acids requires volume sensing (seeChickenB-lymphoidDT40cells)andtheirknockoutvariant via integrin-matrix interactions and also intact microtu- forall3ITPRisoforms.1244-1246Inthesecells,nodifferencesin bules.1255-1257 Along these lines, the use of whole embryos basal levels of LC3-II can be observed up to 4 h after addition makesitpossible toinvestigateautophagy inmultipotentcells, of fresh medium, but differences can be observed after longer whichinteractamongthemselvesintheirnaturalenvironment, times (J.M. Vicencio and G. Szabadkai, personal communica- bypassing the disadvantages of isolated cells that are deprived tion). This concept should also be applied to experiments in of their normal network of interactions.956 In general, it is which the effect of a drug upon autophagy is the subject of importanttokeepinmindthatresultsfromoneparticularsys- study. If the drugs are added after a time in which basal auto- temmaynotbegenerallyapplicabletoothers. phagy is already high, then the effects of the drug can be Conclusion:Althoughautophagyisconservedfromyeastto masked by the cell’s basal autophagy, and wrong conclusions human, there may be tremendous differences in the specific may be drawn. To avoid this, fresh medium should be added details among systems. Thus, results based on one system first (followedbyincubation for 2–4h) in order to reduce and shouldnotbeassumedtobeapplicabletoanother. equilibrate basal autophagy in cells under all conditions, and thenthedrugscanbeadded.Thebasalautophagylevelsofthe cell under study must be identified beforehand to know
