AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


system first (followedbyincubation for 2–4h) in order to reduce and shouldnotbeassumedtobeapplicabletoanother. equilibrate basal autophagy in cells under all conditions, and thenthedrugscanbeadded.Thebasalautophagylevelsofthe cell under study must be identified beforehand to know the 5. Nomenclature timeneededtoreducebasalautophagy. A similar caution must be exercised with regard to cell cul- To minimize confusion regarding nomenclature, we make ture density and hypoxia. When cells are grown in normoxic the following notes: In general, we follow the conventions conditions at high cell density, HIF1A/HIF-1a is stabilized at established by the nomenclature committees for each model organism whenever appropriate guidelines are available, and levels similar to that obtained with low-density cultures under hypoxic conditions.1247 This results in the induction of BNIP3 briefly summarize the information here using “ATG1” as an and BNIP3L and “hypoxia”-induced autophagy, even though example for yeast and mammals. The standard nomencla- the conditions are theoretically normoxic.1248 Therefore, ture of autophagy-related wild-type genes, mutants and pro- teins for yeast is ATG1, atg1 (or atg1D in the case of researchers need to be careful about cell density to avoid acci- dentalinductionofautophagy. deletions) and Atg1, respectively, according to the guide- It should be realized that in yeast species, medium changes lines adopted by the Saccharomyces Genome Database can trigger a higher “basal” level of autophagy in the cells. In ( For mammals wefollowtherecommendationsoftheInternational themethylotrophicyeastspeciesP.pastorisandHansenulapol- Committee on Standardized Genetic Nomenclature for Mice ymorphaashiftofcellsgrowninbatchfromglucosetometha- nolresultsinstimulationofautophagy.1249,1250Ashifttoanew ( tates the designations Atg1, atg1 and ATG1 (for all rodents), medium can be considered a stress situation. Thus, it appears respectively,andtheguidelinesforhumangenesestablishedby tobeessentialtocultivatetheyeastcellsforanumberofhours to stabilize the level of basal autophagy before performing theHUGONomenclatureCommittee( experiments intended to study levels of (selective) autophagy org/guidelines.html), which states that human gene symbols are in the form ATG1 and recommends that proteins use the (e.g., pexophagy). Finally, plant root tips cultured in nutrient- sufficient medium display constitutive autophagic flux (i.e., a same designation without italics, as with ATG1; mutants are writtenforexampleasATG1-/-.1258 basal level), which is enhanced in nutrient-deprived medium.1132,1251,1252 Conclusion:Thelevelsofbasalautophagycanvarysubstan- C. Methodsandchallengesofspecializedtopics/ tially and can mask the effects of the experimental parameters modelsystems beingtested. Changesinmedia andgrowthconditionsneed to beexaminedempiricallytodeterminetheeffectsonbasalauto- There are now alarge numberof modelsystems beingusedto phagyandtheappropriatetimesforsubsequentmanipulations. study autophagy. These guidelines cannot cover every detail, 104 D.J.KLIONSKYETAL. and as stated in the Introduction this article is not meant to providedetailedprotocols.Nonetheless,wethinkitisusefulto briefly discuss what techniques can be used in these systems and to highlight some of the specific concerns and/or chal- lenges. We also refer readers to the 3 volumes of
