AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


One tool for the analysis of autophagic processes in a nonmamma- example might be the role of ULK1/2 in starvation-induced lian vertebrate system. In DT40 cells, foreign DNA integrates autophagy described above. Additionally, neither rapamycin withaveryhighfrequencybyhomologousrecombinationcom- nor torin1 seem to be potent inducers of autophagy in DT40 paredtorandomintegration.Thismakesthecelllineavaluable cells, although MTOR activity is completely repressed as 106 D.J.KLIONSKYETAL. detected by the level of phosphorylated RPS6KB via western A commercial rabbit monoclonal anti-GABARAP (anti- blotting.1277 Finally, DT40 cells represent a transformed cell Atg8)antibodycanbeusedtodetectendogenouslevelsofDro- line,beingderivedfromanavianleukosisvirus-inducedbursal sophila Atg8a in both immunostaining and immunoblotting lymphoma. Thus, DT40 cells release avian leukosis virus into experiments.1284Westernblottingandfluorescencemicroscopy the medium, and the 3 0 -long terminal repeat has integrated have been used successfully in Drosophila by monitoring flies upstream of the MYC gene, leading to increased MYC expres- expressing human GFP-LC3,88,279 GFP-Atg8a1285 or using any sion.1280 Both circumstances might influence basal and starva- ofseveralantibodiesdirectedagainsttheendogenousAtg8pro- tion-inducedautophagy. tein.510,623,1286Inaddition,culturedDrosophila(S2)cellscanbe stably transfected with GFP fused to Drosophila Atg8a, which generates easily resolvable GFP-Atg8a and GFP-Atg8a–PE 3. Chlamydomonas forms that respond to autophagic stimuli (S. Wilkinson, per- The unicellular green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii is an sonal communication); stable S2 cells with GFP-Atg8a under excellent model system to investigate autophagy in photosyn- thecontrolofa2-kbAtg8a5 0 UTRarealsoavailable.1287Simi- thetic eukaryotes. Most of the ATG genes that constitute the larly, cultured Drosophila cells (lmbn or S2) stably trans- autophagy core machinery including the ATG8 and ATG12 fected with EGFP-HsLC3B respond to autophagy stimuli ubiquitin-likesystemsareconservedassingle-copygenesinthe (nutrient deprivation) and inhibitors (3-MA, bafilomycin A ) nuclear genome of this model alga. Autophagy can be moni- as expected, and can be used to quantify GFP-LC3 puncta, tored in Chlamydomonas by western blotting through the which works best using fixed cells with the aid of an anti-GFP detectionofAtg8lipidation aswellasanincrease intheabun- antibody.1288However,intheDrosophilaeye,overexpressionof dance of this protein in response to autophagy activation.292 GFP-Atg8resultsinasignificantincreaseinAtg8–PEbywest- Localization of Atg8 by immunofluorescence microscopy can ernblot,andthisoccursevenincontrolfliesinwhichpunctate also be used to study autophagy in Chlamydomonas since the GFP-Atg8 is not detected by immunofluorescence (M. Fanto, cellular distribution of this protein changes drastically upon unpublishedresults),andintransfectedDrosophilaKc167cells, autophagy induction. The Atg8 signal is weak and usually uninducible but persistent GFP-Atg8 puncta are detected (A. detected as a single spot in nonstressed cells, whereas auto- Kiger, unpublished results). In contrast, expression of GFP- phagy activation results in the localization of Atg8 in multiple LC3 under the control of theninaE/rh1 promoter in wild-type spots with a very intense signal.292,1281,1282 Finally, enhanced flies does not result in
