AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


such as drug toxicity, alcoholic P.Liberski. steatohepatitis or nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). The accumulation of lipid droplets in hepatocytes activates ATG5 anesthetized and fasting patients, 2 conditions possibly affect- in the droplets, and initiates a lipophagy process; in addition, ing autophagy. Moreover, certain surgical procedures require increased influx of fatty acids in hepatocytes results in oxidant tissue ischemia-reperfusion strategies that can also affect auto- stress,ERstressandautophagy,1348,1349asindicatedbythefact phagy level.1344 An analysis that examined liver and skeletal that there is enhanced staining of LC3-II in NASH tis- muscle from critically ill patients utilized tissue biopsies that sue.1348,1350However,autophagicfluxisimpairedinliverspeci- weretakenwithin30§20minafterdeathandwereflash-fro- mens of NASH patients as indicated by increased levels of zeninliquidnitrogenfollowedbystorageat-80 (cid:1) C.1061Samples SQSTM1.1351 Therefore, the value of using LC3-II staining in couldsubsequentlybeusedforEMandwesternblotanalysis. tissueasanindicationofautophagyorlipophagyisinquestion. A major limitation of studying patient biopsies is that only A stepwise process can be proposed for linking changes in static measurements can be performed. This limitation does theautophagicpathwaytochangesindiseaseoutcome.First,in notapply,however,fordynamicexperimentsontissuebiopsies anobservationalstudy,thechangesintheautophagicpathway or cells derived from biopsies, as described above.294 Multiple (see above) should be quantified and linked to changes in dis- measurements over time, especially when deep (vital) organs ease outcome. To prove causality, a subsequent autophagy- areinvolved,areimpossibleandethicallynotjustifiable.Hence, modifyinginterventionshouldbetestedinarandomizedstudy. quantitative flux measurements are virtually impossible in Before an intervention study is performed in human patients, patients. To overcome these problems to the extent possible the phenotype of (in)active autophagy contributing to poor and to gain a more robust picture of the autophagic status, outcome should be established in a validated animal model of observationalstudiesneedtoinclude2differentaspects.First,a the disease. For the validation of the hypothesis in an animal static marker for phagophore or autophagosome formation model, a similar 2-step process is suggested, with the assess- needstobemeasured.Thiscanbedonebyassessingultrastruc- ment of the phenotype in a first stage, followed by a proof-of- turalchangeswithTEMand/oronthemolecularlevelbymea- conceptinterventionstudy(seeLargeanimals). suring LC3-II protein levels. Second, accumulation of autophagysubstrates,suchasSQSTM1and(poly)ubiquitinated 10. Hydra proteins,canprovideinformationontheoverallefficacyofthe pathwayandcanbeasurrogatemarkeroftheconsequencesof Hydra is a freshwater cnidarian animal that provides a unique altered autophagic flux, especially when autophagy is insuffi- model system to test autophagy. The process can be analyzed cient,althoughthesechangescanalsobeaffectedbytheubiqui- either in the context of nutrient deprivation, as these animals tin-proteasome system as mentioned above. In addition, and easilysurviveseveralweeksofstarvation,1352,1353orinthecon- even more so when problems with specific pathways are sus- text of regeneration, because in the absence of protease inhibi- pected (e.g., mitophagy), specific substrates of these pathways tors, bisection of the animals leads to an uncontrolled wave of should be determined. Again, none of these measurements on autophagy. In the latter case, an excess
