AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


of these pathways tors, bisection of the animals leads to an uncontrolled wave of should be determined. Again, none of these measurements on autophagy. In the latter case, an excess of autophagy in the itsownprovidesenoughinformationon(theefficacyof)auto- regenerating tip immediately after amputation is deleteri- phagy, because other processes may confound every single ous.1354-1356 Most components of the autophagy and MTOR parameter. However, the combination of multiple analyses pathways are evolutionarily conserved in Hydra.1353 For should be informative. Of note, there has been recent interest steady-state measurements, autophagy can be monitored by inassessingmarkersofautophagyandautophagicfluxinright western blot for ATG8/LC3, by immunofluorescence (using atrial biopsy samples obtained from patients undergoing car- antibodiestoATG8/LC3,lysobisphosphatidicacidorRPS6KA/ diacsurgery.1345,1346Evidencetodatesuggeststhatcardiacsur- RSK),orwithdyessuchasMitoFluorRed589andLysoTracker gerymaybeassociatedwithanincreaseinautophagicflux,and Red.FluxmeasurementscanbemadebyfollowingATG8/LC3 that this response may protect the heart from perioperative turnover using lysosomal protease inhibitors (leupeptin and AUTOPHAGY 111 pepstatin A) or in vivo labeling using LysoTracker Red. It is Incontrastwithcellcultureexperiments,precisemonitoring also possible to monitor MTOR activity with phosphospecific ofautophagicfluxispracticallyimpossibleinvivoinlargeani- antibodies to RPS6KB and EIF4EBP1 or to examine gene mals. Theoretically, repetitive analyses of small tissue biopsies expressionbysemiquantitativeRT-PCR,usingprimersthatare should be performed to study ultrastructural and molecular designedforHydra.AutophagycanbeinducedbyRNAi-medi- alterations over time in the presence or absence of an auto- ated knockdown of Kazal1,1354,1355 or with rapamycin treat- phagy inhibitor (e.g., chloroquine). However, several practical ment, and can be inhibited with wortmannin or bafilomycin problemsimpedeapplicabilityofthisapproach.First,repetitive A .1352,1353 sampling of small needle biopsies in the same animal (a major challengebyitself)couldbeassumedtoinduceartifactsfollow- ing repetitive tissue destruction, especially when deep (vital) organs are involved. In addition, chemical inhibitors of auto- 11. Largeanimals phagy have considerable side effects and toxicity, hampering This section refers in particular to mammals other than their usage. Also, the general physical condition of an animal humans.Assessmentofautophagy(and,inparticular,autopha- mayconfoundresultsobtainedwithadministrationofacertain gic flux) in clinically relevant large animal models is critical in compound,forinstancealtereduptake ofthecompoundwhen establishing its (patho)physiological role in multiple disease perfusionisworse. states. For example, evidence obtained in swine suggests that Therefore, in contrast to cells, where it is more practical to upregulation of autophagy may protect the heart against dam- accurately document autophagic flux, we suggest the use of a age caused by acute myocardial infarction/heart attack.1357 stepwiseapproachinanimalmodelstoprovideaproofofcon- Ovine models of placental insufficiency leading to intrauterine cept with an initial evaluation of sequellae of (in)active auto- growth restriction have shown that there is no change in the phagyandtherelationtotheoutcomeofinterest. expression of markers of autophagy in the fetus in late gesta- First, prior to an intervention, the static ultrastructural and tion1358 or in the lamb at 21 d
