AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


adequately designed, randomized con- byimmunofluorescencetechniques,inwhichtheantibodiesdo trolledstudyofsufficientsizeontheeffectofacertaininterven- not show specific reactivity to bovine cells and tissues.1365,1367 tiononthephenotypeandoutcomecanbeperformedinalarge However,itisimportanttorememberthatdefinitiveconfirma- animalmodel.Alternatively,theeffectofageneticintervention tion of cause-and-effect is challenging for studies on large ani- can be studied in a small animal model with clinical relevance mals, given the lack or poor availability of specific antibodies tothestudieddisease. and other molecular tools, the frequent inability to utilize As mentioned above, exact assessment of autophagic flux geneticapproaches,andtheoftenprohibitivecostsofadminis- requires multiple time points, which cannot be done in the tering pharmacological inhibitors in these translational sameanimal.Alternatively,differentanimalscanbestudiedfor preparations. different periods of time. Due to the high variability between 112 D.J.KLIONSKYETAL. animals, however, it is important to include an appropriate genome, as well as other genes involved in the TOR signal control group and a sufficiently high number of animals per transduction pathway.1377-1379 Variations in the expression of time point as corroborated by statistical power analyses. This several of these genes have been monitored not only in silk- requirement limits feasibility and the number of time points worm larval organs, whereautophagy is associated with devel- that can be investigated. The right approach to studying auto- opment,619,1377,1378,1380 but also in the fat body of larvae phagyinlargeanimalslikelydiffersdependingonthequestion undergoingstarvation.1377,1381 that is being addressed. Several shortcomings regarding the IntheIPLB-LdFBcellline,derivedfromthefatbodyofthe methodology, inherent to working with large animals, can be caterpillarofthegypsymothLymantriadispar,indirectimmu- overcomebyanadequatestudydesign.Asforeverystudyques- nofluorescence experiments have demonstrated an increased tion, the use of an appropriate control group with a sufficient numberofAtg8-positivedotsincellswithincreasedautophagic numberofanimalsiscrucialinthisregard. activity; however, western blotting did not reveal the conver- sion of Atg8 into Atg8–PE. Instead, a single band with an approximate molecular mass of 42 kDa was observed that was 12. Lepidoptera independentofthepercentageofcellsdisplayingpunctateAtg8 Someoftheearliestworkintheautophagyfieldwascarriedout (D. Malagoli, unpublished results). In contrast, with B. mori in the area of insect metamorphosis.1084 Microscopy and bio- midgut, the use of an antibody specific for BmAtg8 makes it chemicalresearchrevealedautophagyduringthemetamorpho- possible to monitor BmAtg8 processing to BmAtg8–PE by sis of American silkmoths and the tobacco hornworm, western blotting.619 Thus, the utility of monitoring Atg8 in Manduca sexta, and included studies of the intersegmental insectsmaydependontheparticularorganismandantibody. muscles, but they did not include molecular analysis of auto- phagy.Overall,thesetissuescannotbeeasilymaintainedincul- 13. Marineinvertebrates work. Accordingly, these studies were confined to biochemical The invaluable diversity of biological properties in marine measurements and electron micrographs. During metamor- invertebrates offers a unique opportunityto explore the differ- phosis, the bulk of the larval tissue is removed by autophagy entfacetsofautophagyatvariouslevelsfromcelltotissue,and andotherformsofproteolysis.1368Bombyxmoriisnowusedas throughout development and evolution. For example,work on a representative model among Lepidoptera, for studying
