AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


participation in 14. Neotropicalteleosts these tissues.619,1372,1376 Systematic cloning and analysis revealed that homologs of most of the Atg genes identified in In tropical environments, fish have developed different repro- other insect species such as Drosophila are present in B. mori, ductive strategies, and many species have the potential for use and 14 Atg genes have now been identified in the silkworm as a biological model in cell and molecular biology, especially AUTOPHAGY 113 evolution.Thesecellsarealignedattheperipheryofthedental pulp and are maintained during the entire healthy life of a tooth.Asopposedtootherpermanentpostmitoticcellssuchas cardiac myocytes or central nervous system neurons, odonto- blastsaresignificantlylessprotectedfromenvironmentalinsult suchasdentalcariesandtrauma.Matureodontoblastsdevelop a well-characterized autophagy-lysosomal system, including a conspicuousautophagicvacuolethatensuresturnoveranddeg- radation of cell components. Immunocytochemical and TEM studiesmakeitpossibletomonitorage-relatedchangesinauto- phagicactivityinhumanodontoblasts.1388 16. Planarians Because planarians are one of the favorite model systems in which to study regeneration and stem cell biology, these flat- wormsrepresentauniquemodelwhereitispossibletoinvesti- gate autophagy in the context of regeneration, stem cells and growth. Currently the method used to detect autophagy is TEM. A detailed protocol adapted to planarians has been Figure31.MacroautophagyinthedigestiveglandofRuditapesdecussatus(Mol- described.1389,1390 However, complementary methods to detect lusca,Bivalvia)subjectedtoastrictstarvationof2months.ImageprovidedbyS. autophagyarealsoneeded,sinceTEMcannoteasilydistinguish Baghdiguian. between activation and blockage of autophagy, which would both be observed as an accumulation of autophagosomes. for studying the mechanisms that regulate gametogenesis and Other methods to detect autophagy are being developed (C. embryo development. In these fish, the ovary is a suitable Gonz(cid:2)alez-Est(cid:2)evez, personal communication), including IHC experimental model system for studying autophagy and its and western blotting approaches for the planarian homolog of interplaywithcelldeathprogramsduetothepresenceofpost- LC3. Several commercial antibodies against human LC3 have ovulatoryfollicles(POFs)andatreticfollicles,whichfollowdif- beentriedforcross-reactivitywithoutsuccess,and3planarian- ferent routes during ovarian remodeling after spawning.1384 In specific antibodies have been generated. Some preliminary thefishreproductivebiology,POFsareexcellentmorphological results show that LysoTracker Red can be a useful reagent to indicators of spawning, whereas atretic follicles are relevant analyze whole-mount planarians. Most of the components of biomarkersofenvironmentalstress.Inaddition,manyfreshwa- the autophagy and MTOR signaling machinery are evolution- terteleostsofcommercialvaluedonotspawnspontaneouslyin arilyconservedinplanarians.Whetherautophagygenesvaryat captivity, providing a suitable model for studying the mecha- the mRNA level during starvation and after depletion of nisms of follicular atresia under controlled conditions.1385 MTORsignalingcomponentsisstilltobedetermined. Whenthesespeciesaresubjectedtoinducedspawning,thefinal oocyte maturation (resumption of meiosis) occurs, and POFs 17. Plants are formed and quickly reabsorbed in ovaries after spawn- ing.1386 Assessment of autophagy in fish has been primarily As stated above with regard to other organisms, staining with made using TEM at different times of ovarian regression.1387 MDC or derivatives (such as monodansylamylamine) is not Due to the difficulty of obtaining antibodies specific for each sufficientfordetectionofautophagy,asthesestainsalsodetect fish species, immunodetection of
