AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


gondii and certain stages of Plasmodium unique life cycle that involves a transition from a unicellu- (insect and hepatic) lack degradative lysosomes, which makes lar to a multicellular form. Upon starvation, up to 100,000 questionable the presence of canonical autophagosomes and a single cells aggregate by chemotaxis and form a multicellu- processofautophagyintheseparasites.Nevertheless,ifprotists lar structure that undergoes morphogenesis and cell-type employ their autophagic machineries in unconventional man- differentiation. Development proceeds via the mound stage, ners,studiesoftheircoremachineryofautophagywillprovide the tipped aggregate and a motile slug, and culminates with information as to how autophagy has changed and adapted the formation of a fruiting body that is composed of a ball throughevolution. of spores supported by a thin, long stalk made of vacuolized ThescuticociliatePhilasteridesdicentrarchihasproventobe dead cells. Development is dependent on autophagy and, at a good experimental organism for identifying autophagy- present, all of the generated mutants in Dictyostelium auto- inducing drugs or for autophagy initiation by starvation-like phagy genes display developmental phenotypes of varying conditions,sincethisprocesscanbeeasilyinducedandvisual- severity.1404,1405 D. discoideum is also a versatile model to ized in this ciliate.1413 In scuticociliates, the presence of auto- study infection with human pathogens and the role of auto- phagic vacuoles can be detected by TEM, fluorescence phagy in the infection process. The susceptibility of D. dis- microscopy or confocal laser scanning microscopy by using coideum to microbial infection and its strategies to dyessuchasMitoTrackerDeepRedFMandMDC. counteract pathogens are similar to those in higher eukar- Finally, a novel autophagy event has been found in Tetra- yotes.1406 Along these lines, Dictyostelium utilizes some of hymena thermophila, which is a free-living ciliated protist. A the proteins involved in autophagy that are not present in remarkable, virtually unique feature of the ciliates is that S. cerevisiae including ATG101 and VMP1, in addition to they maintain spatially differentiated germline and somatic the core Atg proteins. The classical markers GFP-ATG8 nuclear genomes within a single cell. The germline genome and GFP-ATG18 can be used to detect autophagosomes is housed in the micronucleus, while the somatic genome is by fluorescence microscopy. Flux assays based on the pro- housed in the macronucleus. These nuclei are produced dur- teolytic cleavage of cytoplasmic substrates are also ing sexual reproduction (conjugation), which involves not available.37,322 only meiosis and mitosis of the micronucleus and its prod- OnecautionarynotewithregardtotheuseofGFP-ATG8in ucts, but also degradation of some of these nuclei as well as protistsisthattheseorganismsdisplaysome“nonclassical”var- the parental old macronucleus. Hence, there should be a iations in their ATG proteins
