AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


with seasonal reductions in block lysosomal degradative activity in Plasmodium, these water temperature and prey availability or spawning 116 D.J.KLIONSKYETAL. migrations. As such, they represent an interesting model sys- very easy to study the effects of inducers or inhibitors of tem for studying and monitoring the long-term induction of autophagy by adding these substances directly into the cul- autophagy. Moreover, the rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus ture. Exploiting this potential, it has recently been possible mykiss) displays unusual metabolic features that may allow to understand the functional relationship between auto- us to gain a better understanding of the nutritional regula- phagy and apoptosis induced by cadmium stress during sea tion of this degradative system (i.e., a high dietary protein urchin development. In fact, inhibition of autophagy by 3- requirement, an important use of amino acids as energy MA results in a concurrent reduction of apoptosis; however, sources, and an apparent inability to metabolize dietary car- using a substrate for ATP production, methyl pyruvate, bohydrates). It is also probably one of the most deeply stud- apoptosis (assessed by TUNEL assay and cleaved CASP3 ied fish species with a long history of research carried out in immunocytochemistry) is substantially induced in cad- physiology, nutrition, ecology, genetics, pathology, carcino- mium-treated embryos where autophagy is inhibited. There- genesis and toxicology.1418 Its relatively large size compared fore, autophagy could play a crucial role in the stress to model fish, such as zebrafish or medaka, makes rainbow response of this organism since it could energetically con- trout a particularly well-suited alternative model to carry out tribute to apoptotic execution through its catabolic role.1426 biochemical and molecular studies on specific tissues or cells Cautionary notes include the standard recommendation that are impossible to decipher in small fish models. The that it is always preferable to combine molecular and mor- genomic resources in rainbow trout are now being exten- phological parameters to validate the data. sively developed; a high-throughput DNA sequencing pro- gram of EST has been initiated associated with numerous 21. Ticks transcriptomics studies,1419-1422 and the full genome sequence is now available. In the hard tick Haemaphysalis longicornis, endogenous auto- Most components of the autophagy and associated sig- phagy-related proteins (Atg6 and Atg12) can be detected by naling pathways (AKT, TOR, AMPK, FOXO) are evolution- western blotting and/or by immunohistochemical analysis of arily conserved in rainbow trout;628,1423-1425 however, not all midgut sections.1427,1428 It is also possible to detect endoge-
