AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


(AKT, TOR, AMPK, FOXO) are evolution- western blotting and/or by immunohistochemical analysis of arily conserved in rainbow trout;628,1423-1425 however, not all midgut sections.1427,1428 It is also possible to detect endoge- ATG proteins and autophagy-regulatory proteins are nous Atg3 and Atg8 by western blotting using antibodies pro- detected by the commercially available antibodies produced duced against the H. longicornis proteins (R. Umemiya- against their mammalian orthologs. Nonetheless, the Shirafuji, unpublished results). Commercial antibodies against expressed sequence transcript databases facilitate the design mammalian ATG orthologs (ATG3, ATG5, and BECN1) can of targeting constructs. For steady-state measurement, auto- also be used for western blotting. However, when the tick phagy can be monitored by western blot or by immunofluo- samples include blood of a host animal, the animal species rescence using antibodies to ATG8/LC3.1425 Flux immunized with autophagy-related proteins should be measurements can be made in a trout cell culture model checked before use to avoid nonspecific background cross- (for example, in primary culture of trout myocytes) by fol- reactivity. In addition to these methods, TEM is recom- lowing ATG8/LC3 turnover in the absence and presence of mended to detect autophagosomes and autolysosomes. bafilomycin A . It is also possible to monitor the mRNA Although acidotropic dyes can be useful as a marker for auto- levels of ATG genes by real-time PCR using primer sequen- lysosomes in some animals, careful attention should be taken ces chosen from trout sequences available in the above- when using the dyes in ticks. Since the midgut epithelial cells mentioned expressed sequence transcript database. A major contain acidic organelles (e.g., lysosomes) that are related to challenge in the near future will be to develop for this blood digestion during blood feeding, this method may cause model the use of RNAi-mediated gene silencing to analyze confusion. It is difficult to distinguish between autophagy the role of some signaling proteins in the control of auto- (autolysosomes) and blood digestion (lysosomes) with acido- phagy, and also the function of autophagy-related proteins tropic dyes. Another available monitoring method is to assess in this species. the mRNA levels of tick ATG genes by real-time PCR.1429,1430 However, this method should be used along with other approaches such as western blotting, immunostaining, and 20. Seaurchin TEM as described in this article. Unlike model insects, such as Sea urchin embryo is an appropriate model system for Drosophila, powerful genetic tools to assess autophagy are still studying and
