AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


as described in this article. Unlike model insects, such as Sea urchin embryo is an appropriate model system for Drosophila, powerful genetic tools to assess autophagy are still studying and monitoring autophagy and other defense not established in ticks. However, RNAi-mediated gene silenc- mechanisms activated during physiological development ing is now well established in ticks,1431 and is currently being and in response to stress.956 This experimental model offers developed to analyze the function of autophagy-related genes the possibility of detecting LC3 through both western blot in ticks during nonfeeding periods (R. Umemiya-Shirafuji, and immunofluorescence in situ analysis. Furthermore, in unpublished results) and in response to pathogen infection. vivo staining of autolysosomes with acidotropic dyes can Recently, “omics” technologies such as transcriptomics and also be carried out. Studies on whole embryos make it pos- proteomics have been applied to the study of apoptosis path- sible to obtain qualitative and quantitative data for auto- ways in Ixodes scapularis ticks in response to infection with phagy and also to get information about spatial localization Anaplasma phagocytophilum.1432 I. scapularis, the vector of aspects in cells that interact among themselves in their nat- Lyme disease and human granulocytic anaplasmosis, is the ural environment. Furthermore, since embryogenesis of this only tick species for which genome sequence information is model system occurs simply in a culture of sea water, it is available (assembly JCVI_ISG_i3_1.0; AUTOPHAGY 117 nih.gov/nuccore/NZ_ABJB000000000). For related tick species phagosome. These autophagic components facilitate rapid suchasI.ricinus,mappingtotheI.scapularisgenomesequence phagosomematurationanddegradationofengulfedcargo,and is possible,1433 but for other tick species more sequence infor- play roles in the generation of signaling molecules and regula- mationisneededfortheseanalyses. tion of immune responses.179,180,1449 LAP thus represents a unique process that marries the ancient pathways of phagocy- tosisandautophagy. 22. Zebrafish Despite overlap in molecular machinery, there currently Zebrafish (Danio rerio) have many characteristics that make exist several criteria by which to differentiate LAP from macroautophagy:(a)WhereasLC3-decoratedautophagosomes them a valuable vertebrate model organism for the analysis of can take hours to form, LC3 can be detected on LAP-engaged autophagy. For example, taking advantage of the transparency phagosomes as early as 10 min after phagocytosis, and of embryos, autophagosome formation can be visualized in PtdIns3P can also be seen at LAP-engaged phagosomes vivo during development using transgenic GFP-Lc3 and GFP- Gabarap fish.36,1434,1435 Visualization of later-stage embryos is minutes after phagocytosis.180,182,1449 (b) EM analysis reveals enhanced when medium is supplemented with 1-phenyl-2- that LAP involves single-membrane structures.182 In contrast, thiourea, which
