AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


to3differentorganisms.Theoutermostmembranesoftheapi- D. Noncanonicaluseofautophagy-relatedproteins coplastarederivedfromtheplasmamembraneoftheauxotro- phic eukaryote and the plasma membrane of the internalized 1. LC3-associatedphagocytosis alga. ATG8 is located in the outermost membranes that are Although the lipidation of LC3 to form LC3-II is a commonly enriched in PtdIns3P, which marks autophagic structures in used marker of macroautophagy, studies have established that mammalian cells; at that location it plays a role in the centro- LC3-IIcanalsobetargetedtophagosomestopromotematura- some-mediated inheritance of the organelle in daughter cells tionindependentlyoftraditionalautophagy,inanoncanonical during parasite division (M. L(cid:2)ev^eque and S. Besteiro, unpub- autophagicprocesstermedLC3-associatedphagocytosis.1,26,1448 lished results). Consequently, caution must be taken when LAP occurs upon engulfment of particles that engage a recep- identifyingstress-inducedautophagosomesbyelectronmicros- tor-mediatedsignalingpathway,resultingintherecruitmentof copy or by fluorescence microscopy with ATG8 labeling in some but not all of the autophagic machinery to the theseparasites. 118 D.J.KLIONSKYETAL. 3. LC3conjugationsystemforIFNG-mediatedpathogen E. Interpretationofinsilicoassaysformonitoring control autophagy Similar to LAP, LC3 localizes on the parasitophorus vacuole The increasing availability of complete (or near complete) membrane (PVM) of T. gondii.181 The parasitophorus vacuole genomes for key species spanning the eukaryotic domain pro- is a vesicle-like structure formed from host plasma membrane vides a unique opportunity for delineating the spread of auto- duringtheinvasion ofT.gondii,anditsequestersandprotects phagic machinery componentsintheeukaryoticworld.1467,1468 theinvasiveT.gondiifromthehostilehostcytoplasm.Thecell- Fast and sensitive sequence similarity search procedures are autonomous immune system uses IFNG-induced effectors, already available; an increasing number of experimental biolo- suchasimmunityrelatedGTPasesandguanylatebindingpro- gistsarenowcomfortable“BLASTing”theirfavoritesequences teins (GBPs), to attack and disrupt this type of membrane against the ever-increasing sequence databases for identifying structure; consequently, naked T. gondii in the cytoplasm are putativehomologsindifferentspecies.1469Nevertheless,several killedbyacurrentlyunknownmechanism.Intriguingly,proper limiting factors and potential pitfalls need to be taken into targeting of theseeffectors onto the PVM of T.gondii requires account. the autophagic ubiquitin-like conjugation system, including In addition to sequence comparison approaches, a number ATG7, ATG3, and the ATG12–ATG5-ATG16L1 complex, ofcomputationaltoolsandresourcesrelatedtoautophagyhave although the necessity of LC3-conjugation itself for the target- become available online. All the aforementioned methods and ing is not yet clear. In contrast, up- or downregulation of approaches may be collectively considered as “in silico assays” canonical autophagy using rapamycin, wortmannin, or starva- formonitoringautophagy,inthesensethattheycanbeusedto tiondonotsignificantlyaffecttheIFNG-mediatedcontrolofT. identify the presence of autophagy components in different gondii.Furthermore,thedegradativefunctionorothercompo- species and provide information on their known or predicted nents of the autophagy pathway, such as ULK1/2 and ATG14, associations. are dispensable. Many groups have confirmed the essential Inthefollowingsectionswebrieflypresentrelevantinsilico natureoftheLC3-conjugationsystemforthecontrolofT.gon- approaches, highlighting their strengths while underscoring dii,1455-1457andthesameorasimilarmechanismalsofunctions some inherent limitations, with the hope that this information against other pathogens such as murine norovirus and Chla- will provide guidelines for the most
