AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


highlighting their strengths while underscoring dii,1455-1457andthesameorasimilarmechanismalsofunctions some inherent limitations, with the hope that this information against other pathogens such as murine norovirus and Chla- will provide guidelines for the most appropriate usage of these mydia trachomatis.1208,1455 Although topologically and mecha- resources. nistically similar to LAP, the one notable difference is that the parasitophorous vacuole of T. gondii is actively made by the pathogenitselfusinghostmembrane,andtheLC3-conjugation 1. Sequencecomparisonandcomparativegenomics system-dependent targeting happens even in nonphagocytic approaches cells. GBP-mediated lysis of pathogen-containing vacuoles is Apart from the generic shortcomings when performing important for the activation of noncanonical inflamma- sequence comparisons (discussed in ref. 1470), there are some somes,1458butthetargetingmechanismofGBPstothevacuoles important issues that need to be taken into account, especially is unknown. Considering the necessity of the LC3-conjugation for autophagy-related proteins. Since autophagy components system to target GBPs to the PVM of T. gondii, this system seemtobeconservedthroughouttheeukaryoticdomainoflife, mayplaycrucial roles inthegeneralguidanceofvariouseffec- the deep divergent relations of key subunits may reside in the tormolecules to target membranes as well as in selective auto- so called “midnight zone” of sequence similarity: i.e., genuine phagosome-dependent sequestration, phagophore membrane orthologs may share even less than 10% sequence identity at expansionandautophagosomematuration. the amino acid sequence level.1471 This is the case with auto- phagy subunits in protists1472,1473 and with other universally conserved eukaryotic systems, as for example the nuclear pore 4. Intracellulartraffickingofbacterialpathogens complex.1474 This low sequence identity is especially pro- SomeATGproteinsareinvolvedintheintracellulartrafficking nounced in proteins that contain large intrinsically disordered regions.1475Insuchcases,sophisticated(manual)iterativedata- and cell-to-cell spread of bacterial pathogens by noncanonical autophagic pathways. For example, ATG9 and WIPI1, but not base search protocols, including proper handling of composi- ULK1, BECN1, ATG5, ATG7 or LC3B are required for the tionally biased subsequences and considering domain establishment of an endoplasmic reticulum-derived replicative architecturemayassistineliminatingspurioussimilaritiesorin niche after cell invasion with Brucella abortus.1459 In addition, theidentificationofhomologsthatsharelowsequenceidentity withthesearchmolecule.1473-1475 the cell-to-cell transmission of B. abortus seems to be depen- Genome-aware comparativegenomics methods1476 can also dent on ULK1, ATG14 and PIK3C3/VPS34, but independent ofATG5,ATG7,ATG4BandATG16L1.1460 provideinvaluableinformationonyetunidentifiedcomponents of autophagy. However,care shouldbe takento avoid possible Next Generation Sequencing artifacts (usually incorrect genome assemblies): these may directly (via a similarity to a 5. Otherprocesses protein encoded in an incorrectly assembled genomic region) ATGproteinsareinvolvedinvariousothernonautophagicpro- or indirectly (via propagating erroneous annotations in data- cesses, particularly apoptosis and noncanonical protein secre- bases) give misleading homolog assignments (V.J. Promponas, tion,asdiscussedinvariouspapers.27,75,76,544,572,1449,1461-1465,1466 I.IliopoulosandC.A.Ouzounis,submitted).Inaddition,taking AUTOPHAGY 119 into account other types of high-throughput data available in contained information regarding 312 reviewed protein entries; publiclyaccessiblerepositories(e.g.,EST/RNAseqdata,expres- when additional data
