AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


give misleading homolog assignments (V.J. Promponas, tion,asdiscussedinvariouspapers.27,75,76,544,572,1449,1461-1465,1466 I.IliopoulosandC.A.Ouzounis,submitted).Inaddition,taking AUTOPHAGY 119 into account other types of high-throughput data available in contained information regarding 312 reviewed protein entries; publiclyaccessiblerepositories(e.g.,EST/RNAseqdata,expres- when additional data regarding orthologous/homologous pro- sion data) can provide orthogonal evidencefor validation pur- teins from more than 50 eukaryotes is considered, the total poseswhensequencesimilaritiesaremarginal.1474 number of entries reaches approximately 9,000. In addition to the browse functionalities offeredunder the “Protein List”and the “Homologs” menus, an instance of the NCBI-BLAST soft- 2. Web-basedresourcesrelatedtoautophagy ware facilitates sequence-based queries against the database A number of autophagy-related resources are now available entries. Moreover,interestedusers may download the genelist online, providing access to diverse data types ranging from or the autophagy dump files licensed under a Creative Com- gene lists and sequences to comprehensive catalogs of physical mons Attribution-ShareAlike 2.1 Japan License. The Auto- andindirectinteractions.Inthefollowingwedonotattemptto phagy Database is publicly available online at the URL http:// reviewallfunctionalitiesofferedbythedifferentservers,butto www.tanpaku.org/autophagy/index.html. highlight those that (a) offer possibilities for identifying novel autophagy-related proteins or (b) characterize features that d. TheAutophagyRegulatoryNetwork(ARN) may link specific proteins to autophagic processes. Two com- The most recent addition to the web-based resources relevant ments regarding biological databases in general also apply to to autophagy research is the Autophagy Regulatory Network theseissuesarenotdiscussedfurtherherein. theInstituteofFoodResearchandTheGenomeAnalysisCen- tre(Norfolk,UK).MaintanenceandhostingtheARNresource a. TheTHANATOSdatabase is secured at The Genome Analysis Centre until at least 2019. THANATOS (THe Apoptosis, Necrosis, AuTophagy Orches- ARN is an integrated systems-level resource aiming to collect tratorS)isaresourcebeingdevelopedbytheCUCKOOWork- andprovideaninteractiveuserinterfaceenablingaccesstovali- (Wuhan, Hubei,China). THANATOS is still under develop- and miRNA-mRNA interactions related to autophagy in ment (Y. Xue, personal communication) and it is focused on human.1479ARNcontainsdatafrom26resources,includingan the integration of sequence data related to the main mecha- in-house extensive manual curation, the dataset of the ChIP- nisms leadingto programmed cell deathin eukaryotes.A sim- MS study of Behrends et al.,464 ADB and ELM. As of June ple web interface assists in data retrieval, using keyword 2015,atotalofmorethan14,000proteinsand386miRNAsare searches, browsing by species and cell death type, performing presentinARN,including38coreautophagyproteinsand113 BLAST searches with user-defined sequences, and by request- predicted regulators. Importantly, all autophagy-related pro- ing the display of orthologs among predefined species. A Java teins are linked to major signaling pathways. A flexible—in application is also available to download for standalone usage terms of both content and format—download functionality of the THANATOS resource. The THANATOS database is enables users to locally use the ARN data under the Creative publicly available online at theURL Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 org/. UnportedLicense.Theautophagyregulatory network resource is publicly available
