AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


suppresses macroautophagy and membrane of peroxisomes in S. cerevisiae. Atg36 binds Atg8 allowsfortheregenerationoflysosomesthatwereconsumedas andthescaffoldproteinAtg11thatlinksreceptorsforselective autolysosomes.527Seealsoautolysosome. typesofautophagytothecoreautophagymachinery.1616 Autolysosome(AL): A degradative compartment formed by Atg37: Atg37 is a conserved acyl-CoA-binding protein that is the fusion of an autophagosome (or initial autophagic vacu- requiredspecificallyforpexophagyinP.pastorisatthestageof ole/AVi) or amphisome with a lysosome (also called degra- phagophoreformation.345SeealsoACBD5. dative autophagic vacuole/AVd). Upon completion of Atg38: Atg38physicallyinteractswithAtg14andVps34viaits degradation the autolysosome can become a residual N terminus. Atg38 is required for macroautophagy as an inte- body,1559,1629 or the autolysosomal membrane can be gralcomponentofthePtdIns3KcomplexIinyeast,andAtg38 recycled to generate mature lysosomes during macroauto- functions as a linker connecting the Vps15-Vps34 and Vps30/ phagic flux. This regenerative process, referred to as auto- Atg6-Atg14subcomplexestofacilitatecomplexIformation.1617 phagic lysosome reformation, relies on the scission of Atg39: A receptor for selective macroautophagic degradation extruded autolysosomal membrane tubules by the mecha- ofnuclearmembraneinyeast.839 noenzyme DNM2 (dynamin 2).527,1630 Atg40: Areceptorthatfunctionsinyeastreticulophagy.839See Autophagic body (AB): The inner membrane-bound struc- alsoFAM134B. ture of the autophagosome that is released into the vacuolar Atg41: A protein that interacts with Atg9 and is needed for lumenfollowingfusionoftheautophagosomewiththevacuole efficientAtg9movementtothePASinyeast.1955 limiting membrane. In S. cerevisiae, autophagic bodies can be ATG101: An ATG13-binding protein conserved in various stabilizedbytheadditionoftheproteinaseBinhibitorPMSFto eukaryotesbutnotinS.cerevisiae.Formsastablecomplexwith the medium or by the deletion of the PEP4 or ATG15 genes. ULK1/2-ATG13-RB1CC1 (i.e., not nutrient-dependent) Visualization of the accumulating autophagic bodies by differ- required for macroautophagy and localizes to the phago- ential interference contrast using light microscopy is a conve- phore.1618,1619TheC.eleganshomologisEPG-9. nient, but not easily quantified, method to follow ATI1/2 (ATG8-interacting protein 1/2): Two closely related macroautophagy.93 ATG8-binding proteins in Arabidopsis, which are unique to Autophagiccelldeath: Ahistoricallyambiguoustermdescrib- plantsanddefineastress-inducedandER-associatedcompart- ing cell death with morphological features of increased auto- mentthatmay functioninadirect,Golgi-independent, ER-to- phagic vacuoles. This term is best reserved for cell death vacuole trafficking pathway.1620 ATI1 is also found in plastids contextsinwhichspecificmolecularmethods,ratherthanonly following abiotic stress where it interacts with bothATG8 and pharmacological or correlative methods, are used to demon- plastid-localized proteins to act in their delivery to the central strate increased cell survival following inhibition of vacuoleinanATG5-dependentmanner.801 macroautophagy. ATM (ATM serine/threonine kinase): A protein kinase that Autophagic stress: A pathological situation in which induc- activates TSC2 via the STK11/LKB1-AMPK cascade in tion of autophagy exceeds the cellular capacity to complete responsetoelevatedROS,resultingininhibitionofMTORand lysosomal degradation and recycling of constituents; may activationofmacroautophagy.774 involve a combination of bioenergetics, acidification and ATP13A2 (ATPase type 13A2): A transmembrane lysosomal microtubule-dependent trafficking deficits, to which neurons type5P-typeATPasethatismutatedinrecessivefamilialatypi- maybeparticularlyvulnerable.15 cal parkinsonism, with effects on lysosomal function.1621 Loss Autophagic vacuole: A term
