AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


bioenergetics, acidification and ATP13A2 (ATPase type 13A2): A transmembrane lysosomal microtubule-dependent trafficking deficits, to which neurons type5P-typeATPasethatismutatedinrecessivefamilialatypi- maybeparticularlyvulnerable.15 cal parkinsonism, with effects on lysosomal function.1621 Loss Autophagic vacuole: A term typically used for mammalian of ATP13A2 function inhibits the clearance of dysfunctional cellsthatcollectivelyreferstoautophagicstructuresatallstages mitochondria.1622 of maturation. We recommend using this term when the spe- ats-1(Anaplasmatranslocatedsubstrate-1): AtypeIVsecre- cific identity of autophagosomes, amphisomes and autolyso- tion effector of the obligatory intracellular bacterium Ana- somesarenotdistinguished. plasma phagocytophilum that binds BECN1 and induces AutophagamiR: A term to describe miRNAs that function in autophagosome formation; the autophagosomes traffic to, and theregulationofmacroautophagy.1631 fuse with, A. phagocytophilum-containing vacuoles, delivering Autophagist: Aresearcherworkinginthefieldofautophagy. macroautophagic cargoes into the vacuole, which can serve as Autophagolysosome (APL): A degradative compartment nutrientsforbacterialgrowth.1623,1624 formed by the fusion of an LC3-containing phagosome (see AUTOPHAGY 191 LAP) or an autophagosome that has sequestered a partial triacylglycerollipaseactivities)alsopartiallyblocksmacroauto- or complete phagosome with a lysosome. In contrast to a phagy. Finally, Ice2 and Ldb16, integral membrane proteins phagolysosome, formation of the autophagolysosome involves that participate in formation of ER-lipid droplet contact sites componentsofthemacroautophagicmachinery.Notethatthis that may be involved in lipid transfer between these sites are term is not interchangeable with “autophagosome” or alsoneededforefficientmacroautophagy. “autolysosome”.884 AZD8055: A novel ATP-competitive inhibitor of MTOR Autophagoproteasome (APP): A cytosolic membrane-bound kinase activity. AZD8055 shows excellent selectivity against all compartment denoted by a limiting single, double or multiple class I PI3K isoforms and other members of the PI3K-like membrane, which contains both LC3 and UPS antigens. The kinase family. Treatment with AZD8055 inhibits MTORC1 autophagoproteasome may be derived from the inclusion of andMTORC2andpreventsfeedbacktoAKT.1195 ubiquitin-proteasome structures within either early or late Bafilomycin A (BAFA1/BAF): An inhibitor of the V-type autophagosomes containing cytoplasmic material at various ATPaseaswellascertainP-typeATPasesthatpreventsacidifi- stagesofdegradation.73 cation and alters the membrane potential of certain compart- Autophagosome (AP): A cytosolic membrane-bound com- ments; treatment with bafilomycin A ultimately results in a partment denoted by a limiting double membrane (also block in fusion of autophagosomes with lysosomes, thus pre- referredtoasinitialautophagicvacuole,AVi,orearlyautopha- venting the maturation of autophagosomes into autolyso- gosome).Theearlyautophagosomecontainscytoplasmicinclu- somes.156,157,226 Note that the abbreviation for bafilomycin A sions and organelles that are morphologically unchanged isnot“BFA,”asthelatter isthestandardabbreviationforbre- because the compartment has not fused with a lysosome and feldinA;norshouldBAFbeconfusedwiththeabbreviationfor lacks proteolytic enzymes. Notably, the double-membrane thecaspaseinhibitorboc-asp(o-methyl)fluoremethylketone. structure may not be apparent with certain types of fixatives. BAG3 (BCL2-associated athanogene 3): A stress-induced Although in most cases the term autophagosome refers to a co-chaperone that utilizes the specificity of HSP70 molecu-
