AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


Drs: SeeSRPX. EMC6/TMEM93 (ER membrane protein complex subunit E2F1: A mammalian transcription factor that upregulates the 6): AnovelER-localizedtransmembraneprotein,whichinter- expression of BNIP3, LC3, ULK1 and DRAM1 directly, and acts with both RAB5A and BECN1 and colocalizes with the ATG5 indirectly.614 E2F1 plays a role during DNA damage- omegasome marker ZFYVE1/DFCP1.1731 EMC6 enhances andhypoxia-inducedmacroautophagy. autophagosomeformationwhenoverexpressed. EAT (early autophagy targeting/tethering) domain: The C- Endorepellin: The anti-angiogenic C-terminal cleavage prod- terminal domain of Atg1, which is able to tether vesicles.1721 uct of HSPG2/perlecan. Endorepellin engages KDR/VEGFR2 ThispartoftheproteinalsocontainsthebindingsiteforAtg13. and ITGA2/a2b1 integrin in a novel mechanism termed dual EAT-2(eatingabnormal): Aligand-gatedionchannelsubunit receptor antagonism for achieving endothelial cell specificity closelyrelatedtothenon-alphasubunitofnicotinicacetylcho- and function. Endorepellin evokes endothelial cell macroauto- line receptors, which functions to regulate the rate of pharyn- phagy downstream of KDR and in a PEG3-dependent geal pumping. eat-2 loss-of-function mutants are dietary manner.1732 restrictedandrequiremacroautophagyfortheextensionoflife Endosomal microautophagy (e-MI): A form of autophagy in span.1703,1722,1723 which cytosolic proteins are sequestered into late endosomes/ EDTP: SeeMTMR14. MVBs through a microautophagy-like process. Sequestration EEA1(earlyendosomeantigen1): ARAB5effectorusedasa can be nonselective or can occur in a selective manner medi- commonmarkerforearlyendosomevesicles. atedbyHSPA8.This processdiffers from chaperone-mediated EEF1A1/EF1A/eF1a (eukaryotic translation elongation fac- autophagy as it does not require substrate unfolding and it is tor 1 alpha 1): Multifunctional member of the family of G- independent of the CMA receptor LAMP2A.1115 This process proteins with different cellular variants. The lysosomal variant occurs during MVB formation and requires the ESCRT-I and of this protein acts coordinately with GFAP at the lysosomal ESCRT-IIIproteinmachinery.Seealsoendosomeandmultive- membrane to modulate the stability of the CMA translocation sicularbody. complex. Release of membrane bound EEF1A1 in a GTP- Endosome: The endosomal compartments receive mole- dependent manner promotes disassembly of the translocation cules engulfed from the extracellular space and are also in complexandconsequentlyreducesCMAactivity.1724 communication with the Golgi apparatus. The endosomal eF1a: SeeEEF1A1. system can be viewed as a series of compartments starting EGFR (epidermal growth factor receptor): A tyrosine kinase with the early endosome. From there, cargos can be receptor that negatively regulates macroautophagy through recycled back to the plasma membrane; however, more PI3K,AKT,andMTORmodulation.523 typically, internalized cargo is transported to the late endo- EGOcomplex: TheEgo1,Ego3andGtr2proteinsformacom- some/MVB. These latter compartments can fuse with lyso- plexthatpositivelyregulatesyeastmicroautophagy.1725 somes. Ensosomal maturation from early endosomes is a eIF2akinase: SeeEIF2S1kinase. dynamic process that involves a progressive reduction in EIF2AK2/PKR (eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2- lumenal pH. In mammalian cells, early and/or multivesicu- alphakinase2): AmammalianEIF2S1/EIF2alphakinasethat lar endosomes fuse with autophagosomes to generate inducesmacroautophagyinresponsetoviralinfection.558 amphisomes. EIF2AK3/PERK
