AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


binding protein 1-like): An F-BAR-con- phagosomeformationandcargorecruitment.142 tainingproteinthatinteractswithATG3andisrequiredforthe GADD34: SeePPP1R15A. macroautophagy-dependent clearance of S. typhimurium, but GAIP: SeeRGS19. notothertypesofautophagy.1755 Gap junction proteins/connexins: Multispanmembranepro- FNIP1 (folliculin interacting protein 1): An interactor with teins that mediate intercellular communication through the the tumor suppressor FLCN. FNIP1464 and its homolog formation of hemi-channels or gap junctions at the plasma FNIP21752canalsointeractwithGABARAP. membrane. These proteins act as endogenous inhibitors of FOXO1 (forkhead box O1): A mammalian transcription autophagosome formation by directly interacting and seques- factor that regulates macroautophagy independent of tran- tering at the plasma membrane essential ATG proteins scriptional control; the cytosolic form of FOXO1 is acety- requiredforautophagosomebiogenesis. lated after dissociation from SIRT2, and binds ATG7 to GATA1: A hematopoietic GATA transcription factor, allow induction of macroautophagy in response to oxidative expressedinerythroidprecursors,megakaryocytes,eosinophils, AUTOPHAGY 199 and mast cells, that provides the differentiating cells with the Gp78: SeeAMFR. requisite macroautophagy machinery and lysosomal compo- GPNMB (glycoprotein [transmembrane] nmb): A protein nents to ensure high-fidelity generation of erythrocytes.641 See involvedinkidneyrepairthatcontrolsthedegradationofphag- alsoZFPM1/FOG1. osomesthroughmacroautophagy.1776 GATE-16: SeeGABARAP. GPSM1/AGS3(G-proteinsignalingmodulator1): Aguanine Gaucher disease (GD): Caused by mutations in the gene nucleotide dissociation inhibitor for GNAI3 that promotes encoding GBA/glucocerebrosidase (glucosidase, beta, acid), macroautophagy by keeping GNAI3 in an inactive state.1668 Gaucher disease is the most common of the lysosomal storage GPSM1 directly binds LC3 and recruits GNAI3 to phago- disorders and can increase susceptibility to Parkinson dis- phores or autophagosomes under starvation conditions to ease.1766-1768 promote autophagosome biogenesis and/or maturation. See GBA/glucocerbrosidase(glucosidase,betaacid): Alysosomal also GNAI3. enzymethatbreaksdownglucosylceramidetoglucoseandcer- Granulophagy: Theprocessofbulkautophagicdegradationof amide. Mutations cause Gaucher disease and are associated mRNPgranules.TheprocesshasbeencharacterizedinS.cere- with increased risk of Parkinson disease. Loss of GBA is also visiae and mammalian cells and is dependent on Cdc48/VCP associated with impaired autophagy and failure to clear dys- in addition to the core autophagic machinery. The process is functionalmitochondria,whichaccumulateinthecell.1769 partiallyimpairedbydisease-causingmutationsinVCP.1777 Gcn2: AmammalianandyeastEIF2S1/eIF2aserine/threonine GSK3B/GSK-3b(glycogensynthasekinase3beta): Aregula- kinasethatcausestheactivationofGcn4inresponsetoamino torofmacroautophagy.GSK3Bmayactpositivelybyinhibiting aciddepletion,thuspositivelyregulatingmacroautophagy.1726 MTOR through the activation of TSC1/2 and by activating Gcn4: A yeast transcriptional activator that controls the syn- ULK1 through KAT5.1778 GSK3B modulates protein aggrega- thesisofaminoacidbiosyntheticgenesandpositivelyregulates tion through the phosphorylation of the macroautophagy macroautophagyinresponsetoaminoaciddepletion.1726 receptor NBR1.1529GSK3B,however,itisalsoreportedtobea GCN5L1: Acomponentofthemitochondrialacetyltransferase negativeregulatorofmacroautophagy.SeealsoKAT5. activity that modulates mitophagy and mitochondrial HDAC6 (histone deacetylase 6): A microtubule-associated biogenesis.1770 deacetylase that interacts with ubiquitinated proteins. HDAC6 GEEC (GPI-enriched endocytic compartments) pathway: A stimulates autophagosome-lysosome fusion by promoting the form of clathrin-independent endocytosis that contributes remodeling of F actin, and the quality control function of membraneforphagophoreexpansion.1771 macroautophagy.665,666,1779 HDAC is also a biomarker of GFAP (glial fibrilary acid
