AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


fluorescent protein that produces a high LGG-3: AC.eleganshomologofAtg12. amount of superoxide upon excitation. The construct with a Lipophagy: Selective degradation of lipid droplets by lyso- mitochondria targeting sequence (mitoKillerRed) can be used to somescontributingtolipolysis(breakdownoftriglyceridesinto inducemitochondriadamageandsubsequentmitophagy.766,767 free fatty acids). In mammals, this selective degradation has Knockdown: An experimental technique to reduce protein been described to occur via macroautophagy (macrolipo- expressionwithoutalteringtheendogenousgeneencodingthat phagy),817 whereas in yeast, microlipophagy of cellular lipid protein,throughthemeansofshortDNAorRNAoligonucleo- storeshasalsobeendescribed.Thisprocessisdistinctfromthe tides(miRNA,RNAi,shRNA,siRNA)thatarecomplementary PNPLA5-dependentmobilizationoflipiddropletsascontribu- tothecorrespondingmRNAtranscript. torsoflipidprecursorstophagophoremembranes. 202 D.J.KLIONSKYETAL. Lipoxygenases: Mycobacterial infection-responsive expression degradation process, whereas secondary lysosomes are sites of oftheseproteins,suchasALOX5andALOX15,inhibitsIFNG- present or past digestive activity. The secondary lysosomes inducedmacroautophagyinmacrophages.528 includeautolysosomesandtelolysosomes.Autolysosomes/early LIR/LRS (LC3-interacting region): This term refers to the secondarylysosomesarelargercompartmentsactivelyengaged WXXL-likesequences(consensussequence[W/F/Y]-X-X-[I/L/ in digestion, whereas telolysosomes/late secondary lysosomes V]) found in proteins that bind to the Atg8/LC3/GABARAP do not have significant digestive activity and contain residues family of proteins (see also AIM and WXXL-motif).364 The of previous digestions. Both may contain material of either core LIR residues interact with 2 hydrophobic pockets of the autophagicorheterophagicorigin. ubiquitin-likedomainoftheAtg8homologs. Macroautophagy: Thelargelynonselectiveautophagicseques- LITAF (lipopolysaccharide-induced TNF factor): An activa- tration of cytoplasm into a double- or multiple-membrane- tor of inflammatory cytokine secretion in monocytes that has delimited compartment (an autophagosome) of non-lyso- otherfunctionsindifferentcelltypes;LITAFisapositiveregu- somal/vacuolar origin and its subsequent degradation by the lator of macroautophagy in B cells.1841 LITAF associates with lysosomal/vacuolar system. Note that certain proteins and autophagosomes,andcontrolstheexpressionofMAP1LC3B. organelles may be selectively degraded via a macroautophagy- LKB1: SeeSTK11. related process, and, conversely, some cytosolic components LMP (lysosome membrane permeabilization): The process suchascytoskeletalelementsareselectivelyexcluded. bywhichlysosomalmembranesbecomedisruptedthroughthe MAGEA3 (melanoma antigen family A3): MAGEA3 and action of lysosomotropic agents, detergents or toxins.1842 LMP MAGEA6formacomplexwiththeE3ligaseTRIM28,resulting blocks lysosomal activity and thus autophagy and induces the in the degradation of AMPK and the subsequent increase in release of lysosomal content to the cytoplasm including MTOR activity, which in turn causes a downregulation of cathepsinsthatcaninducecelldeath.1843,1844 macroautophagy.1854SeealsoTRIM28. LON2 (LON protease 2): A protease localized to the peroxi- MAP1LC3/LC3 (microtubule-associated protein 1 light somematrixthatimpedespexophagyinArabidopsis.1845 chain3): AhomologofyeastAtg8,whichisfrequentlyusedas Long-lived protein degradation (LLPD): Macroautophagy is a phagophore or autophagosome marker. Cytosolic LC3-I is a primary mechanism used by cells to degrade long-lived pro- conjugated to phosphatidylethanolamine to become phago- teins, and a corresponding assay can be used to monitor auto- phore- or autophagosome-associated LC3-II.269 The LC3 fam- phagicflux;3ausefulabbreviationisLLPD.486 ilyincludesLC3A,LC3B,LC3B2andLC3C.Theseproteinsare Lro1: SeeAyr1. involved in the biogenesis of autophagosomes, and in cargo Lucanthone: An anti-schistosome compound that inhibits a recruitment.142VertebrateLC3isregulatedbyphosphorylation late stage of macroautophagy; treatment results in deacidifica- oftheN-terminalhelicalregionbyPRKA/PKA.343 tionoflysosomesandtheaccumulationofautophagosomes.1846 MAP1S (microtubule-associated protein 1S): A
