AUTOPHAGY
KEYWORDS: cid, usa, china, france, germany, japan, spain, italy, schoolofmedicine, korea, canada, france cid, cid cid, taiwan, paris


GFP-tagged FYVE and PX domains Pho8D60 assay: An enzymatic assay used to monitor are generally not good markers for the macroautophagy-spe- macroautophagy in yeast. Deletion of the N-terminal cytosolic cificpoolofthisphosphoinositide. 208 D.J.KLIONSKYETAL. Phosphatidylinositol 3,5-bisphosphate (PtdInsP ): This it possesses an atypical catalytic domain and lacks catalytic molecule is generated by PIKFYVE (phosphoinositide kinase, activity, at least in vitro (J. Murray, personal communication). FYVE finger containing) and is abundant at the membrane of PIK3R4 also interacts with RAB GTPases, including RAB51950 thelateendosome.Itsfunctionisrelevantforthereplicationof that may be responsible for recruitment of PIK3C3-PIK3R4- intracellularpathogenssuchasthebacteriaSalmonella,1944and complexestositesofautophagosomeformation. ASFV.1945 PtdIns(3,5)P also plays a role in regulating PINK1/PARK6 (PTEN induced putative kinase 1): A mito- macroautophagy.1946 chondrialproteinkinase(mutatedinautosomalrecessiveforms Phosphoinositide 3-kinase/PI3K: The class I family of ofParkinsondisease)thatisnormallydegradedinamembrane enzymes thataddaphosphategroup tothe3 hydroxylon the potential-dependent manner to maintain mitochondrial struc- inositol ring of phosphoinositides. PI3K activity results in the ture and function,1924,1951 suppressing the need for mito- activationofMTORandtheinhibitionofmacroautophagy. phagy.757 Upon mitochondrial depolarization, mitochondrial Phosphoinositides (PI) or inositol phosphates: These are import blockade, accumulation of unfolded proteins in the membrane phospholipids that control vesicular traffic and mitochondrialmatrixorablationoftheinnermembraneprote- physiology. There are several different phosphoinositides gen- ase PARL, PINK1 is stabilized and activated, phosphorylating erated by quick interconversions by phosphorylation/dephos- ubiquitin (see phosphorylated ubiquitin/p-S65-Ub) and phorylation at different positions of their inositol ring by a PARK2forfullactivationandrecruitmentofPARK2(reviewed numberofkinasesandphosphatases.Thepresenceofapartic- inref.745)tofacilitatemitophagy.1917-1921,1952SeealsoPARL. ular PI participates in conferring membrane identity to an PKA(proteinkinaseA): Aserine/threoninekinasethatnega- organelle. tively regulates macroautophagy in yeast;1953 composed of the Phosphorylatedubiquitin/p-S65-Ub: Phosphorylated ubiqui- Tpk1/2/3 catalytic and Bcy1 regulatory (inhibitory) subunits. tin is essential for PINK1-PARK2-mediated mitophagy and ThemammalianPKAhomolog,PRKA,directlyphosphorylates plays a dual role in the intial activation and recruitment of LC3.343 Bacterial toxins that activate mammalian PRKA can PARK2 to damaged mitochondria (reviewed in ref. 745) Spe- alsoinhibitautophagy.1954Inaddition,cAMPinducers,suchas cificantibodiescanbeusedtofaithfullydetectPINK1-PARK2- b -adrenergic agonists (D.A.P. Gonc¸alves, personal communi- dependentmitophagyatearlysteps;744however,theexactfunc- cation), CALC/calcitonin gene-related peptide (J. Machado, tions of p-S65-Ub during the different phases of mitophagy personal communication) and forskolin plus isobutilmethyl- remainunclear. xantine (W.A. Silveira, personal communication), block the Piecemeal microautophagy of the nucleus (PMN)/micronu- conversion of LC3-I to LC3-II in C2C12 myotubes and adult cleophagy: A process in which portions of the yeast nuclear skeletal muscles. Phosphorylation of the fission modulator membrane and nucleoplasm are invaginated into the vacuole, DNM1Lbymitochondrially-localizedPRKAblocksmitochon- scissioned off from the remaining nuclear envelope and drial fragmentation and autophagy induced by loss of endoge- degradedwithinthevacuolelumen.715,716 nous PINK1 or by exposure to a neurotoxin in neuronal cell PI4K2A/PI4KIIa (phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase type 2 cultures.1717SeealsoDNM1L. alpha): A lipid kinase that
