Van Tuan et al. Journal of
KEYWORDS: disease, wilson, patient, wilson disease, symptoms, copper, liver, neurological, patients, case, disorders, psychiatric, diagnosis, day, increased


Van Tuan et al. Journal of Journal of Medical Case Reports (2025) 19:469 Medical Case Reports CASE REPORT Open Access Wilson’s disease with psychiatric symptoms: a case report Nguyen Van Tuan1,2, Tran Nguyen Ngoc1,2* , Nguyen Thuy Hang1,2 and Tran My Ha1,2 Abstract Background Wilson’s disease is a copper metabolic disorder defined by the body’s accumulation of copper, which inhibits its excretion and initially manifests as liver and neurological symptoms. The patient reported herein showed only psychiatric symptoms and was diagnosed in the latter stages without typical Wilson’s disease symptoms. The case underscores the complexity of diagnosing Wilson’s disease, emphasizing the significant challenges regard- ing early detection and treatment efficacy. Case presentation We report the case of a 20-year-old Vietnamese male with Wilson’s disease. The initial manifesta- tions in the patient reported herein include psychiatric symptoms such as mood fluctuations, anger, irritation, impul- sivity, emotional eruptions, weariness, and sleep disorders. The patient exhibited no symptoms of Wilson’s disease as documented and was diagnosed solely via DNA sequencing, resulting in serious complications and an unfavorable prognosis. Conclusions This case underscores the complexity of Wilson’s disease symptoms. Early identification and effective therapy are crucial for enhancing patient outcomes. Keywords ATP7B mutation, Wilson’s disease, Psychiatric symptoms, Case report Introduction the body. A portion is absorbed in the small intestine; Wilson’s disease (WD) is a disorder of copper metabo- however, the majority is taken up by liver cells. Liver lism characterized by the accumulation of copper in the cells both supply and eliminate copper from the body. body, inhibiting its excretion . The global prevalence of The majority of copper ions, upon entering hepatocytes, Wilson’s disease (WD) has reached 30 million individu- are carried by the ATP7B protein across the membrane als, with a rate of 1.2–2 per 100,000 population in Europe of Golgi to associate with apo-ceruloplasmin, forming and 30 per 100,000 population in Asia . In addition, the ceruloplasmin complex, which is then released from the incidence in Europe is approximately 1/30,000– the liver into the bloodstream and distributed to vari- 1/50,000 and in the USA is 1/30,000 population . In ous organs. Typically, six copper ions join with one apo- Vietnam, the estimated incidence is approximately 1/350 ceruloplasmin to form ceruloplasmin. Excess copper will children, and there are currently more than 3000 patients be carried by the Golgi apparatus to the gallbladder for . Approximately 2–5 mg copper is ingested daily
