Van Tuan et al. Journal of
KEYWORDS: disease, wilson, patient, wilson disease, symptoms, copper, liver, neurological, patients, case, disorders, psychiatric, diagnosis, day, increased


symptoms of weariness and lethargy and levels will diminish while urinary copper levels will rise. experienced inadequate nocturnal sleep. After that, the Excessive copper accumulation leads to its release from patient could pass the national examination to be admit- various organs, including the eyes, brain, blood, bones, Nevertheless, the symptoms had minimal impact on the joints, skin, and kidneys. Copper accumulation regardless patient and those in proximity, which led to the family of organ might result in damage and manifest symptoms and patient delaying receiving medical treatment. particular to that organ . Wilson’s disease is definitely diagnosed when there are Psychiatric symptoms levels below 20 mg/dL, Kayser–Fleischer rings, a fam- exhibited increased symptoms of irritability and frustra- ily history of the disease, liver damage, and problems tion. There was a notable increase in agitation, as evi- with the skull. Computer tomography reveals central denced by the tendency to leave the dining area abruptly gray-matter attenuation, cortical atrophy, and ventricu- during meals with parents. Instances of throwing dishes lomegaly. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) shows an and chopsticks in response to dissatisfaction were increase in signal on T2 weight (T2W), a decrease in observed. Additionally, the patient reported heightened signal on T1 weight (T1W), cortical atrophy, ventricu- fatigue and difficulties with night sleep. lomegaly, and an ATPB7 gene mutation in the thalamus, putamen, and pontine nucleus, and ATPB7 gene muta- Neurological deterioration tion . Nonetheless, accumulation of copper in an organ The patient exhibited hand tremors, impaired smart- leads to adverse effects on that organ, resulting in symp- phone use, declined handwriting, a weakened voice, and tomatic manifestations. Consequently, Wilson’s disease persistent spillage of food and drink. symptoms are not consistently characteristic as defined. Therefore, Wilson’s disease often presents challenges in Diagnostic workup terms of identification and is often mistaken for other Abdominal ultrasound revealed a 13-mm hyperechoic conditions. The result of a previous study suggested that nodule in the right liver. Ceruloplasmin concentra- about 60% of patients exhibit liver symptoms at diagno- tion measured < 1 mg/dL. The fundus examination scan sis, whereas 100% have liver damage throughout pro- revealed no evidence of Kayser–Fleischer rings, indicat- gression of the disease. Diagnosis reveals 40–50% have ing only retinal degeneration, while the ocular ultrasound neurological symptoms and 20–30% have mental symp- demonstrated scattered vitreous opacities. DNA analysis toms manifested prior to diagnosis. The remaining symp- determined a variant in the ATP7B gene (Table
