Van Tuan et al. Journal of
KEYWORDS: disease, wilson, patient, wilson disease, symptoms, copper, liver, neurological, patients, case, disorders, psychiatric, diagnosis, day, increased


ultrasound neurological symptoms and 20–30% have mental symp- demonstrated scattered vitreous opacities. DNA analysis toms manifested prior to diagnosis. The remaining symp- determined a variant in the ATP7B gene (Table 1). MRI toms range from 0% to 10% . of the brain demonstrated symmetrical lesions in the putamen, thalamus, and cerebral peduncles bilaterally, exhibiting increased signal on T2-weighted and fast fluid- Case report attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) sequences, with Patient history no restricted diffusion observed on diffusion-weighted The patient was a 20-year-old Vietnamese male, the sec- imaging (DWI) (Fig. 1). ond offspring in the family, exhibiting typical physical and mental development, who consumes tobacco but Treatment and follow‑ups abstains from alcohol and other stimulants. His 12 years The patient was diagnosed with Wilson’s disease and of education were entirely satisfactory and exemplary. He underwent outpatient treatment with penicillamine possessed a jovial, approachable, and affable disposition, 600 mg/day and zinc gluconate 100 mg/day. The patient devoid of any problems with others. He did not have a remained under observation and care at the Institute of surgical conditions. A relative, the son of his paternal Following a 3-day course of the medication, the patient aunt, was diagnosed with Wilson’s disease. exhibited stiffness in the muscles across the body. During Table 1 Diagnostic assessments Criteria Diagnostic criteria Present patient At first admission Ceruloplasmin < 10 mg/dL 1 mg/dL DNA sequencing variant of the ATP7B + MRI scans of the brain Basal ganglia lesions Lesions of the thal- amus and bilateral cerebral pedun- cles Liver symptoms Severe active hepatitis/cirrhosis Coarse liver with a 1.3-cm hyperechoic nodule Eye signs Kayser–Fleischer ring – At second admission Ceruloplasmin < 10 mg/dL 0.027 mg/dL Serum-free copper > 1.6 umol/l 2 umol/l 24-h urine copper levels > 100 ug 781 ug the spasms, the patient experienced restlessness, dis- of stiffness (Fig. 2), and a noticeable decrease in anxiety comfort, anxiety, and fear. In addition to the increased and stress levels. On the seventh day, the patient expe- frequency of stiffness in the muscles, the patient also rienced a resurgence of stiffness, anxiety, and restless- experienced increased restlessness, anxiety, fear, and ness, accompanied by poor sleep quality. However, the insomnia by the third week. The patient was admit- patient’s extrapyramidal motor symptoms worsened, ted again to the hospital with a 24-h urine copper level probably because of mobilization of the excess copper of 781 ug and was diagnosed with mood
