Van Tuan et al. Journal of
KEYWORDS: disease, wilson, patient, wilson disease, symptoms, copper, liver, neurological, patients, case, disorders, psychiatric, diagnosis, day, increased


motor symptoms worsened, ted again to the hospital with a 24-h urine copper level probably because of mobilization of the excess copper of 781 ug and was diagnosed with mood disorder due and deposition into the basal ganglia. to a known physiological condition (F06.3)/WD, which Discussion received additional medication. The treatment regimen included olanzapine 5 mg (½ tablet of 10 mg) taken at Wilson’s disease is a disorder of copper metabolism that night from day 1; sertraline (Zoloft) 50 mg added in the leads to the accumulation of copper in the body, prevent- morning on day 2; diazepam (Seduxen) 5 mg at night ing its excretion. Many authors suggested that the first from day 2. The patient exhibited reduced restlessness manifestations of Wilson’s disease are in the liver and and achieved sleep within 2 days. The symptoms pro- neurological. Therefore, doctors mainly focus on signs gressively worsened. The patient experienced increased of liver disease and extrapyramidal symptoms such as difficulty in pronunciation and communication, chal- tremors and dystonia. However, in this patient, the first lenges in mobility, and was unable to ride a bicycle. Assis- manifestations were psychiatric symptoms such as mood tance from parents was required for eating and drinking, swings, irritability, frustration, impulsiveness, emotional although there were no swallowing disorders. Addition- outbursts, being ready to smash things when not satisfied, ally, the patient exhibited restlessness, numbness, and fatigue, and poor sleep at night. Litwin et al. suggested limb heaviness, particularly in the late afternoon. The that only about 20% of people with Wilson’s disease previously mentioned symptoms progressively intensi- initially present with psychiatric symptoms. Psychiat- fied, accompanied by further limb spasms, perspiration, ric manifestations in childhood can include decreased and stiffness. The patient exhibited signs of irritability, academic performance and inappropriate or impulsive agitation, and persistent worry and stress. The patient’s behavior. In adulthood, there are often manifestations of condition deteriorated, resulting in unsteadiness while behavioral and personality changes , such as anxiety standing, frequent falls, and an increased reliance on and depression , mania and cognitive decline , and parental support for ambulation. Additional psycho- sexual dysfunction , as well as sleep disorders [11, tropic medication included sertraline (Zoloft), increased 12]. Some have substance use disorders . These diazepam. Wilson’s disease and lead to delays in diagnosis . Wil- On the sixth day of hospitalization, the patient expe- son’s disease, which affects the basal ganglia, may be
