Van Tuan et al. Journal of
KEYWORDS: disease, wilson, patient, wilson disease, symptoms, copper, liver, neurological, patients, case, disorders, psychiatric, diagnosis, day, increased


These diazepam. Wilson’s disease and lead to delays in diagnosis . Wil- On the sixth day of hospitalization, the patient expe- son’s disease, which affects the basal ganglia, may be the rienced improved sleep, reduced intensity and duration cause of the patient’s mental disorders. Wilson’s disease Fig. 1 MRI scan of the brain. A Bilateral cerebral peduncle. B Dorsal surface of the cerebellum. C Lesions of the thalamus conditions are often secondary to brain and physical dis- eases. Therefore, they align with the diagnostic criteria of ICD 10, which includes other mental disorders stemming from brain damage and dysfunction, physical diseases (F06), and personality and behavioral disorders resulting from brain disease, brain damage, and dysfunction (F07) . Literature suggests that initial neurological symp- toms are disorders of the medulla oblongata, which cause difficulty in moving the neck, waist, lips, mouth, and tongue muscles. Additionally, extrapyramidal mus- cle tone is also increased, particularly during concen- tration and strenuous exercise. The typical symptom is “Wilson’s face,” which is characterized by immobil- ity in the face, mouth, and pharynx. The next symptom is a speech disorder, which is characterized by difficulty speaking, slow speech, monotonous sounds, and dyspho- nia. Abnormal movements such as limb tremors, chorea, and jerking also occur. In the late stage, there are blad- der disorders: urinary retention and constipation. During the final stage, the patient exhibits increased muscle tone throughout their body, lies in bed in a cramped position with their limbs and mouth open, is sometimes unable to speak or swallow, and experiences seizures . Our patient presented with typical neurological symptoms, including hand tremors, difficulty using the phone, worse handwriting than before, difficulty hearing voices, and frequent spilling of food and drink. Currently, the patient requires assistance walking and sitting up after a fall. The liver is the initial organ impacted by damage. Prior studies indicated that 60% of patients exhibit liver symp- toms at diagnosis, whereas up to 100% display at least subclinical indicators of liver impairment throughout the disease. Liver manifestations might involve chronic hepa- titis, cirrhosis, and abrupt liver failure . How- ever, our patient did not show any signs of liver damage. Only the liver ultrasound showed a 13-mm hyperechoic nodule in the right liver. Blood biochemistry indicated normal hepatic function. Several studies indicated that the Kayser–Fleischer sign is present in 66.3% of patients with Wilson’s dis- ease, with neurological symptoms occurring more
