Van Tuan et al. Journal of
KEYWORDS: disease, wilson, patient, wilson disease, symptoms, copper, liver, neurological, patients, case, disorders, psychiatric, diagnosis, day, increased


right liver. Blood biochemistry indicated normal hepatic function. Several studies indicated that the Kayser–Fleischer sign is present in 66.3% of patients with Wilson’s dis- ease, with neurological symptoms occurring more fre- quently (85.5%) than hepatic symptoms (52.1%) . Our patients did not have eye signs, e.g., Kayser–Fleischer rings or sunflower cataracts. Fig. 2 Muscle stiffness. A Lower limb muscle stiffness. B Upper limb Neurological worsening following the initiation of muscle stiffness d-penicillamine therapy is a well-documented but seri- ous complication in patients with Wilson’s disease. Członkowska et al. reported that 10–50% of patients may also affects neurotransmitters in the monoamine sys- experience a deterioration of neurological symptoms tem, such as dopamine, serotonin, and norepinephrine. during the early phase of chelation therapy, typically Despite the emergence of mental disorders prior to Wil- within the first 8–12 weeks. This paradoxical worsening son’s disease diagnosis, some authors maintain that these is believed to result from rapid mobilization of copper from hepatic stores into the bloodstream and its subse- Availability of data and materials The datasets generated or analyzed during the study are not publicly available quent redistribution to the central nervous system—par- owing to copyright and privacy restrictions but are available from the cor- ticularly the basal ganglia—where it exerts neurotoxic responding author on reasonable request. effects . Patients with preexisting neurological or psychiatric symptoms are especially vulnerable to this Declarations adverse effect. Clinical manifestations may include new Ethical approval or worsening tremors, dystonia, dysarthria, rigidity, gait Our institution does not require ethical approval for reporting individual cases disturbances, and in some cases, psychiatric exacerbation or case series. . In our patient, the emergence of pronounced stiff- Consent for publication ness, speech difficulties, and motor decline after 3 weeks Written informed consent was obtained from the patient for publication of of penicillamine therapy is consistent with this phenom- this case report and any accompanying images. A copy of the written consent enon. Current guidelines recommend careful monitor- is available for review by the Editor-in-Chief of this journal. ing at treatment initiation, using low starting doses and Competing interest gradual titration of penicillamine to reduce the risk of The authors have no potential conflicts of interest to disclose. neurological worsening . In patients who develop intolerance or symptom exacerbation, alternatives such Received: 2 January 2025 Accepted: 16 July 2025 as trientine or zinc monotherapy should be considered . The patient was diagnosed with Wilson’s
