Type 2 Diabetes in Children and Adolescents- A Focus on Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, adolescents, youth, children, years, free, article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, study


ABSTRACT Nearly three decades have passed since the first publications on type 2 diabetes (T2D) in children and adolescents, and it is now well established as a global problem. As the prevalence of obesity continues to increase within the general population, diagnosing T2D in adolescents presents a multifaceted challenge. In this chapter, we shall delve into the epidemiological aspects, as well as the distinct characteristics inherent to various types of diabetes. Cohort studies with long-term follow-ups have illuminated our understanding of the alarming incidence of complications in adolescents diagnosed with T2D. Recent approvals of novel pharmaceutical interventions for teenagers have ushered in a new era of hope. Hopefully, in the forthcoming decade, we anticipate a decline in the prevalence of these complications. However, in the interim, a proactive and assertive approach remains essential for addressing the complications associated with T2D in adolescents. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . SHORT HISTORY Youth-onset type 2 diabetes (T2D) was initially described in Pima Indian children and adolescents ( 1 ). This tribe, also known as “the pathfinders,” has a notable history of obesity and early-onset diabetes. In the mid-nineties, studies from various clinics in the United States reported cases of T2D in children from diverse ethnic backgrounds, primarily non-Hispanic Blacks and Hispanics ( 2 - 4 ). While these reports were initially met with suspicion, it soon became clear that a new disease had emerged among children. Subsequently, similar reports emerged from various parts of the world. In 2000, the SEARCH for Diabetes Study was launched in the US. This prospective nationwide, multi-center study aimed at understanding the epidemiology of both type 1 diabetes (T1D) and T2D in children. A few years later, in 2004, the Treatment Options for Type 2 Diabetes in Adolescents and Youth (TODAY) study was initiated. The TODAY study was a prospective, randomized treatment trial, designed to explore treatment regimens and the clinical course of T2D in youth. Registries from Germany, Diabetes Prospective Follow-up Registry (DPV) ( 5 ), Hong Kong ( 6 ), China ( 7 ), India (Registry of People with Diabetes with Youth Age at Onset (YDR)) ( 8 ) and Israel ( 9 ), contributed to the current knowledge. Importantly, while the US is leading in the scope of the T2D epidemic, similar trends have been observed worldwide. EPIDEMIOLOGY Epidemiology in the USA According
