Type 2 Diabetes in Children and Adolescents- A Focus on Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, adolescents, youth, children, years, free, article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, study


had a grandparent affected with diabetes ( 15 ). This increased risk of T2D associated with family history reflects genetic influences, the impact of the environment, and the intrauterine environment. Maternal Obesity and Maternal T2D During Pregnancy Exposure to maternal obesity has been linked to an increased risk of childhood obesity in offspring ( 16 ) and 2.8-fold higher odds of T2D. Exposure to maternal gestational diabetes was associated with 5.7-fold higher odds of T2D ( 17 ). Moreover, individuals exposed to maternal diabetes during pregnancy were diagnosed with diabetes at a younger age and exhibited worse β-cell function. Exposure in utero to maternal diabetes and obesity accounted for 47% of the T2D risk in this population ( 17 , 18 ), and, importantly, it sets up a vicious cycle for future generations. Suggested mechanisms affecting the developmental programming of offspring towards T2D include epigenetic modifications, alterations in stem cell differentiation, variation in the metabolome and microbiome, and immune dysregulation ( 19 ). Of note, assisted reproductive technology was not found to be a risk factor for early-onset T2D ( 20 ). Pregnancies complicated by pre-existing diabetes are associated with extreme birth weights. In a large study, small for gestational age (SGA) babies, defined as below the 10th percentile for birth weight, were reported in 14.1% of pregnancies of women with T2D, while 26.2% had newborns with a large birth weight, defined as above the 90th percentile ( 21 ). Both SGA and high birth weight are associated with an increased risk of a history of early-onset T2D among adults. Of note, a lower birthweight was associated with an increased risk of developing T2D independently of adult BMI and the genetic risk of T2D ( 22 ). Pregnancies complicated by pre-existing diabetes are associated with preterm delivery and birth weight extremes. In a national cohort study involving over 4 million singletons born in Sweden from 1973 to 2014, preterm birth (occurring before 37 weeks) was associated with a 1.3-fold increased risk of developing T2D before age 18 years ( 23 ). Notably, the association between preterm birth and T2D was significantly stronger among females ( 23 ). Mental Health and Treatment The association between psychiatric disorders in adolescents and T2D is bidirectional, complex, and not well studied in the pediatric population ( 24 ). On the one hand, youth with chronic illnesses such as obesity are more likely to develop
