Type 2 Diabetes in Children and Adolescents- A Focus on Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, adolescents, youth, children, years, free, article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, study


is bidirectional, complex, and not well studied in the pediatric population ( 24 ). On the one hand, youth with chronic illnesses such as obesity are more likely to develop depression, depressive symptoms, and anxiety than those without chronic illnesses. On the other hand, youth who have mental health morbidities are at increased risk for isolation, sedentary lifestyle, weight gain, and the development of T2D. Furthermore, some psychotropic medications, particularly atypical antipsychotics, are associated with weight gain and increased risk for T2D in adults. These associations have not been systematically studied in youth, but clinical experience suggests a contribution. Immigration Globally, immigration is on the rise. Studies conducted among adults have indicated that immigrants, when compared to non-immigrants, exhibit higher rates of obesity, insulin-resistance, and hypertension. In a recent review ( 25 ) focusing on European countries, non-European migrant children face a greater risk of being overweight or obese compared to their native counterparts; the prevalence of obesity in migrant and native children ranged from 1.2 to 15.4% and from 0.6 to 11.6%, respectively. The increased rates of overweight and obesity among migrating children and adolescents render them more susceptible to developing T2D and other metabolic abnormalities. An Israeli study found that among adolescents of Ethiopian origin, the prevalence of overweight and obesity increased two-and-a-half fold and fourfold in males and females, respectively, during the study period, compared to a 1.5-fold increase among native Israeli-born males and females ( 26 ). Socioeconomic Status A discernible disparity exists in the socioeconomic status (SES) of children and adolescents with T2D. In developed countries, such as the United States, low SES is a recognized risk factor for the development of obesity and T2D. This is attributed to factors such as limited access to healthy foods and reduced physical inactivity. However, in developing countries, higher SES groups tend to have greater levels of physical inactivity and consume higher quantities of fat, salt, and processed foods compared to their lower SES counterparts ( Figure 2 ). When data from 384 youth with T2D who completed a baseline research visit as part of the SEARCH study and 227 youth with T2D from the Registry of People with Diabetes with Youth Age at Onset (YDR) in India who completed a baseline visit were compared, only 23.6% of SEARCH youth belonged to a high SES group, in contrast to 88.5% of YDR youths (P < .001) ( 8
