Type 2 Diabetes in Children and Adolescents- A Focus on Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, adolescents, youth, children, years, free, article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, study


incidence was significantly higher in boys (2.16), leading to a reversal of the sex ratio of pediatric T2D incidence ( 30 ). The surge in T2D incidence during the pandemic can be attributed to several factors. First, there was an increase in obesity among young people during the COVID-19 pandemic, accompanied by increased consumption of processed foods and reduced physical activity, both of which contribute to the risk of developing T2D ( 31 ). In addition, there was increased psychosocial stress, which is emerging as an important contributor to the risk of T2D. Furthermore, viral mediated non-autoimmune β-cell destruction, resulting in reduced β-cell function in predisposed adolescents, has been suggested as a contributing factor ( 28 ). Genetics The genetics of T2D in children and adolescents have largely remained unexplored. ProDiGY is a multiethnic collaboration encompassing three studies (TODAY, SEARCH, and T2D-GENES) involving 3,006 youth subjects with T2D, diagnosed at a mean age of 15.1±2.9 years, along with 6,061 diabetes-free adult control subjects. Association analyses were conducted on approximately 10 million imputed variants, employing a generalized linear mixed model incorporating a genetic relationship matrix to account for population structure. The analysis was further adjusted for sex. This comprehensive study identified seven genome-wide significant loci that included a novel locus in PHF2, along with TCF7L2, MC4R, CDC123, KCNQ1, IGF2BP2, and SLC16A11. A secondary analysis involving 856 diabetes-free youth subjects uncovered an additional locus in CPEB2, and consistent directional effects for diabetes risk were observed ( 32 ). CLINICAL PRESENTATION Diabetes Related Signs The classical signs at the onset of diabetes - polydipsia and polyuria - are observed in about two-thirds of youth at the diagnosis of T2D. Only about one-third are diagnosed through routine screening of asymptomatic youth with obesity. Furthermore, the prevalence of diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) among youth with T2D in the SEARCH study and the YDR in India was 5.5% and 6.6%, respectively. Importantly, the incidence of DKA at the onset of T2D was higher during the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic ( 33 ). Hyperglycemic hyperosmolar state is present at diagnosis in 2% of youth with T2D ( 34 ). Seasonal Diagnosis of T2D There is significant seasonal variation in the onset of T2D in children and young people in the United States; diagnoses increased in August. Possible explanations for an August peak in diagnoses include weight gain during the summer vacation and an increase in physical exams for school athletic
