Type 2 Diabetes in Children and Adolescents- A Focus on Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, adolescents, youth, children, years, free, article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, study


0.64 2.4±0.4 >97%ile Hypertension (%) NA 21 25 14 Dyslipidemia NA 58 58% 100 NAFLD NA 20 Microalbuminuria NA 16.6 5 These reports suggest that there are unique features and pathophysiologic drivers distinct from the influence of pubertal hormones, which are often implicated in the mechanism underlying T2D in older children and adolescents. Furthermore, the emergence of T2D in prepubertal children and the high prevalence of comorbidities among them serve as a warning for an impending public health challenge. Sex In the Western world, youth-onset T2D is almost twice as common in girls as in boys, whereas Asian countries report no differences in incidence by sex. For T2D, SEARCH had a higher proportion of females, while studies from China show no difference between females and males, and there are reports of increased prevalence in males in the Middle East; in the UAE ( 43 ), the female to male ratio was 0.5:1, in Iraq ( 44 ) 0.6:1, and Kuwait ( 45 ) 0.8:1 ( Figure 2 ). This may reflect the higher prevalence of obesity in males in these countries ( 46 ). Indeed, in the UAE, among children aged 11 to 14 years, the prevalence of obesity was reported as 24.3% and extreme obesity (BMI ≥99 th percentile) as 5.7%; the rate of extreme obesity was 9.6-fold higher in boys than girls ( 47 ). In Kuwait, 41.4% of boys were classified as obese, compared to 28.9% of girls of the same age ( 46 ). DIAGNOSIS Early diagnosis of T2D is likely to bring several benefits, enabling prompt multifactorial treatment and management of cardiovascular risk factors. Considering the increasing prevalence of T2D among children and adolescents, clinical symptoms have become less distinct, and age, sex, and weight are no longer definitive criteria for a clear diagnosis. Therefore, the most important diagnostic feature is the presence or absence of pancreatic autoantibodies in any child diagnosed with hyperglycemia; positive antibodies indicate T1D even if the child is overweight or has a family history of T2D. If the antibodies are negative, a genetic test for monogenic diabetes (previously referred to as Maturity-Onset Diabetes of the Young (MODY) should be considered if available. TREATMENT Initial treatment for T2D includes a focus on lifestyle changes, including healthy diet, increasing regular physical activity, achieving weight loss, and receiving emotional support. While lifestyle change is recommended as a practical approach, there is limited evidence
