Type 2 Diabetes in Children and Adolescents- A Focus on Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, adolescents, youth, children, years, free, article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, study


on lifestyle changes, including healthy diet, increasing regular physical activity, achieving weight loss, and receiving emotional support. While lifestyle change is recommended as a practical approach, there is limited evidence that lifestyle intervention alone has a sustained impact on glycemic control in youth with T2D ( 48 ). The Impact of Lifestyle Changes The impact of lifestyle intervention, as determined by changes in diet and cardiovascular fitness, on glycemic control in youth with T2D was assessed in the TODAY clinical trial cohort spanning 15 centers across the United States. The study included 699 youth aged 10 to 17 years with T2D for less than 2 years. Those participants randomly assigned to the lifestyle intervention participated in a family-based behavioral program aimed at promoting weight loss. Each family was assigned a dedicated leader responsible for guiding them through their journey of physical activity and nutrition improvement. The intervention was structured across three stages, initially there were weekly meetings for 6 to 8 months, focusing on physical activity, setting individual calorie intake goals, self-monitoring, and problem-solving. In the subsequent stage, biweekly meetings were held for 12 to 16 months. Lastly, meetings were held monthly for 24 to 28 months, concentrating on maintaining a healthy lifestyle. Dietary data were collected through an interviewer-administered food frequency questionnaire, and cardiovascular fitness was assessed using a submaximal cycle ergometer test at baseline, 6 months, and 24 months ( 49 ). At 6 months, approximately 25% of females and 33% of males improved cardiovascular fitness. The authors concluded that a minority of youth improved fitness and/or diet over time, although those who did showed a beneficial impact on glycemic outcomes. However, the positive lifestyle behavior changes did not persist after 24 months, providing a sobering perspective on the challenges of implementing lasting lifestyle changes in this population. Pharmacotherapy The beginning of the third decade of the 21st century will be marked by the introduction of novel medications for children with T2D. There are several groups of medications for T2D, biguanides, sulfonylureas, GLP1 receptor agonists, SGLT2 inhibitors, dipeptidyl peptidase inhibitors, and combinations of the dual incretin analogs and the new triple G agents (dual incretin and glucagon). However, only biguanides, GLP1 receptor agonists, and SGLT2 inhibitors are currently FDA-approved for children. Doses and modes of administration are presented in Table 2 . Table 2. FDA-Approved Medications for Treating Type 2 Diabetes in Children Aged 10 Years and Older
