Type 2 Diabetes in Children and Adolescents- A Focus on Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, adolescents, youth, children, years, free, article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, study


median of 2 months and had a baseline HbA1c of 7.7±2.2%, were treated with metformin. After a median of 71 days, the mean HbA1c change was -1.33, and the mean weight change -0.43 kg ( 53 , 54 ). Metformin-related side effects are gastrointestinal, including diarrhea, abdominal pain, bloating, nausea, and decreased appetite, which occur in about 50% of users. Gastrointestinal side effects are usually transient and improve over time. Another potential side effect of metformin is vitamin B12 deficiency, and regular monitoring is indicated, though no cases of vitamin B12 deficiency were identified in the TODAY study. Lactic acidosis is a concerning side effect associated with metformin use in adults. It occurs in the presence of hypoperfusion or hypoxemia; however, it has rarely been reported in children and adolescents. GLUCAGON-LIKE-PEPTIDE 1 (GLP1) Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) is a peptide hormone primarily produced by intestinal enteroendocrine cells at low basal levels that rapidly increases within minutes of food consumption. GLP-1 plays a vital role in regulating meal-related glycemic excursions by enhancing insulin secretion and inhibiting glucagon secretion. Additionally, GLP-1 slows gastric emptying and reduces food intake through a central effect on appetite, which contributes to weight loss. However, GLP-1 has a short half-life of approximately 2 minutes, as it is rapidly degraded by dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4). To enhance GLP-1 activity, medications such as DPP-4 inhibitors and GLP-1 receptor agonists have been developed. The story of the development of GLP1 agonists is truly fascinating. It begins with the venomous Gila monster (Heloderma suspectum), native to New Mexico and Arizona. H. suspectum, a long-lived and reclusive species, spends a significant portion of its life underground. Although its venomous bite causes pain and weakness, it is rarely fatal to adult humans. In 1990, endocrinologist Dr. John Eng, while analyzing the venom to identify new hormones, identified a peptide named exendin-4. He discovered that exendin-4 had a remarkable ability to stimulate the synthesis and release of insulin from β-cells in the pancreas. Interestingly, exendin-4 closely resembled GLP-1. However, while GLP-1 remains active for about two minutes, the effect of exendin-4 persists for several hours. Preclinical studies demonstrated that a single daily injection of exendin-4 normalized blood glucose concentrations in mice with diabetes. Following extensive clinical testing, exenatide, an analog of exendin-4, was found to be safe and effective, leading to its FDA approval for adults in 2005. Of note, in a 2-year rat carcinogenicity study
