Type 2 Diabetes in Children and Adolescents- A Focus on Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, adolescents, youth, children, years, free, article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, study


testing, exenatide, an analog of exendin-4, was found to be safe and effective, leading to its FDA approval for adults in 2005. Of note, in a 2-year rat carcinogenicity study involving prolonged-release exenatide, an increased incidence of thyroid adenoma and C-cell carcinoma was observed at doses ≥2-fold the human systemic exposure. The clinical relevance of these adverse findings is currently unknown. However, GLP-1 analogs are contraindicated in patients with a personal or family history of medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC) or in patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 (MEN 2), as well as in patients with a serious hypersensitivity reaction. Patients should be counseled about the potential risk of MTC associated with the GLP1 receptor agonists, and it is important to inform them about the symptoms that may indicate thyroid tumors, such as a neck mass, dysphagia, dyspnea, and persistent hoarseness. Routine monitoring of serum calcitonin levels or use of thyroid ultrasound for the detection of MTC is of uncertain value. Side effects include serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylactic reactions and angioedema. Additionally, acute pancreatitis, including fatal and nonfatal hemorrhagic or necrotizing pancreatitis, and the acute onset of gallbladder disease, such as cholelithiasis or cholecystitis, have been reported in GLP-1 receptor agonists trials and post-marketing surveys ( 55 ). Liraglutide-Victoza® Children aged 10 to less than 17 years with T2D were randomly assigned 1:1 to receive subcutaneous liraglutide (up to 1.8 mg per day) or placebo for a 26-week double-blind period, followed by a 26-week open-label extension ( 56 ). At the 26-week visit, the mean HbA1c had decreased by 0.64 percentage points with liraglutide and increased by 0.42 percentage points with placebo, resulting in an estimated treatment difference of -1.06 percentage points. By 52 weeks, the difference had increased to -1.30 percentage points ( Table 3 ). In the liraglutide group, 63.7% of patients achieved HbA1c levels of less than 7.0%, compared with 36.5% in the placebo group. On the other hand, there was no statistical benefit of liraglutide over placebo in lowering BMI or blood pressure ( Table 3 ). The overall rate of adverse events, including gastrointestinal adverse events, was higher among patients receiving liraglutide. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved liraglutide injection for the treatment of pediatric patients 10 years of age or older with T2D. Liraglutide was the first non-insulin drug approved to treat T2D in pediatric patients since metformin was approved for pediatric
