Type 2 Diabetes in Children and Adolescents- A Focus on Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, adolescents, youth, children, years, free, article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, study


of pediatric patients 10 years of age or older with T2D. Liraglutide was the first non-insulin drug approved to treat T2D in pediatric patients since metformin was approved for pediatric use in 2000. Mode of administration: The recommended initial dose is 0.6 mg subcutaneously once daily for the first week, followed by an increase to 1.2 mg once daily. It’s important to note that the initial dose of 0.6 mg once daily is primarily intended to mitigate gastrointestinal adverse effects and does not provide glycemic control. If adequate glycemic control is not achieved, the dose can be further increased to 1.8 mg once daily. Exenatide-Bydureon The effectiveness of once-weekly exenatide 2 mg (Bydureon AstraZeneca) in youth with suboptimally controlled T2D was evaluated ( 57 ). At 24 weeks, exenatide demonstrated superiority over the placebo in reducing HbA1c levels (a decrease of -0.36% with exenatide compared to +0.49% with placebo), resulting in a significant between-group difference of 0.85 percentage points. Notably, no major hypoglycemic events were reported. and the most frequently reported adverse events included gastrointestinal symptoms such as nausea, diarrhea, and vomiting, along with injection site reactions such as pruritus, erythema, and nodules. Clinically meaningful differences were not observed in change from baseline in BMI Z score, body weight, or waist circumference, nor were there significant differences in blood pressure. The prolonged-release suspension of exenatide administered via injection with a pre-filled pen has received approval from the European Union and the FDA for the treatment of T2DM in children and adolescents aged 10 years and older. Mode of administration: Bydureon (2 mg per dose) should be administered once every 7 days. The dose can be administered at any time of day, with or without meals. Bydureon is not recommended as first-line therapy for patients with inadequate glycemic control on diet and exercise because of the uncertain relevance of the rat thyroid C-cell tumor findings to humans. Dulaglutide-Trulicity Dulaglutide (Trulicity) is a GLP-1 receptor agonist administered via subcutaneous injections once a week. In a randomized, double-blind, phase 3 trial involving youth with inadequately controlled T2DM, the efficacy and safety of dulaglutide treatment in reducing HbA1c levels at 26 weeks were assessed ( 58 ). Remarkably, there was 99% adherence to treatment in this trial. Treatment resulted in a significant reduction in HbA1c relative to placebo; at week 26, HbA1c decreased by 0.8 percentage points but increased by 0.6 percentage points in
