Type 2 Diabetes in Children and Adolescents- A Focus on Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, adolescents, youth, children, years, free, article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, study


in this trial. Treatment resulted in a significant reduction in HbA1c relative to placebo; at week 26, HbA1c decreased by 0.8 percentage points but increased by 0.6 percentage points in the placebo group (1.4 percentage point difference). Gastrointestinal symptoms were among the most common adverse events, but they were primarily mild and were most likely to occur soon after the initiation of therapy. There were no clinically meaningful differences in the incidence or annual rate of hypoglycemia between the dulaglutide groups and the placebo group. Body weight did not decrease significantly following treatment. Mode of administration: The recommended initiating dose of Trulicity is 0.75 mg once weekly, administered subcutaneously. The dose may be increased to 1.5 mg once a week for additional glycemic control. Trulicity can be administered any time of day, with or without meals, and should be injected subcutaneously in the abdomen, thigh, or upper arm. The day of weekly administration can be changed, if necessary, as long as the last dose was administered 3 days (72 hours) or more before. Trulicity and insulin should not be mixed in the same syringe and must be administered as two separate injections at two different injection sites. SODIUM-GLUCOSE TRANSPORT PROTEIN 2 - SGLT2 INHIBITORS Sodium-glucose transport protein 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors belong to a class of medications that modulate sodium-glucose transport proteins in the nephron. These inhibitors primarily target the SGLT2 proteins, expressed in the renal proximal convoluted tubules, to reduce the reabsorption of filtered glucose and sodium ( 59 ). Apart from their role in controlling glucose concentrations, SGLT2 inhibitors have demonstrated substantial cardiovascular benefits, particularly reducing heart failure events, for adults with T2D. In adults, the FDA-approved indications for SGLT2 inhibitors include the reduction of major adverse cardiovascular events in individuals with T2D and established cardiovascular disease, as well as the reduction of the risk of eGFR decline in patients with chronic kidney disease at risk of progression. The most common reported adverse events associated with SGLT2 inhibitors include female genital mycotic infections, urinary tract infections (including urosepsis and pyelonephritis), as well as nausea and constipation. Most importantly, SGLT2 inhibitors are associated with an almost three-fold increased risk for DKA in adults. The risk for DKA is highest for canagliflozin, followed by empagliflozin and dapagliflozin. Furthermore, individuals may develop euglycemic DKA, i.e., a triad of increased anion gap acidosis, ketosis, and a serum glucose level below 250 mg/dL. The
