Type 2 Diabetes in Children and Adolescents- A Focus on Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, adolescents, youth, children, years, free, article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, study


canagliflozin, followed by empagliflozin and dapagliflozin. Furthermore, individuals may develop euglycemic DKA, i.e., a triad of increased anion gap acidosis, ketosis, and a serum glucose level below 250 mg/dL. The association between SGLT-2 inhibitors and euglycemic DKA appears to be secondary to their noninsulin-dependent glucose clearance, compensatory hyperglucagonemia, and volume depletion. Currently, euglycemic DKA has not been reported among youth with T2D taking SLGT2 inhibitors. Empagliflozin - Jardiance® A total of 105 children and adolescents were randomly assigned 1:1 to receive empagliflozin 10 mg or placebo ( 60 ). The adjusted mean change in HbA1c from baseline at week 26 was significantly greater in the empagliflozin group (–0·84%). Changes in body weight and blood pressure did not reach statistical significance. Adverse events occurred in 64% of participants in the placebo group and 77% in the empagliflozin group up to week 26, including severe adverse events in 4% of participants in the placebo group and 2% in the empagliflozin group. Mild and moderate hypoglycemia were the most frequently reported adverse events, with higher rates for those on active drug treatment compared with placebo; no severe hypoglycemic events were reported, and there were no episodes of DKA or necrotizing fasciitis associated with empagliflozin treatment. An increased incidence of bone fractures has been reported in adults, leading the American Diabetes Association to recommend avoiding SGLT-2 inhibitors in patients with a risk factor for fractures. Furthermore, SGLT2 inhibitors are not recommended for glycemic lowering in patients with T2D with an eGFR less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 . Mode of administration: Empagliflozin is an oral medication dosed at either 10 mg daily or 25 mg daily. The recommended dose is 10 mg once daily in the morning, taken with or without food. If tolerated initially, dosing may increase up to 25 mg. Dapagliflozin - Farxiga® Participants aged 10–24 years with T2D and HbA1c concentrations ranging from 6.5 to 11% were given oral dapagliflozin 10 mg or placebo during a 24-week double-blind period ( 61 ); 39 participants were assigned to dapagliflozin and 33 were assigned to placebo. After 24 weeks, the mean change in HbA1c concentration was −0·25% for dapagliflozin and 0·50% for the placebo group; the between-group difference was −0·75%, which did not reach statistical significance. However, in a sub-analysis, excluding participants with poor compliance, the HbA1c change was -0.51%, while it was 0.62% for the placebo group, resulting in a between group
