Type 2 Diabetes in Children and Adolescents- A Focus on Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, adolescents, youth, children, years, free, article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, study


reach statistical significance. However, in a sub-analysis, excluding participants with poor compliance, the HbA1c change was -0.51%, while it was 0.62% for the placebo group, resulting in a between group significant difference of 1.13%. Adverse events occurred in 69% of participants assigned to dapagliflozin and 58% of those assigned to placebo over a 24-week period. Over 52 weeks, adverse events occurred in 74% of participants who received dapagliflozin. Hypoglycemia was noted in 28% of participants assigned to dapagliflozin and in 18% of those assigned to placebo, none were considered serious adverse events. Notably, there were no reported episodes of DKA. Mode of administration: To improve glycemic control the recommended starting dose is 5 mg once daily, taken in the morning. Increase dose to 10 mg once daily in patients tolerating 5 mg who require additional glycemic control. Dapagliflozin is not recommended for use in patients receiving loop diuretics or who are volume depleted, e.g., due to acute illness (such as gastrointestinal illness). DIPEPTIDYL PEPTIDASE 4 (DPP 4) INHIBITORS DPP-4 is a ubiquitous enzyme that degrades GLP-1 and GIP (gastric inhibitory peptide), resulting in a short half-life. By inhibiting the DPP-4 enzyme, DPP-4 inhibitors increase the levels of GLP-1 and GIP. This, in turn, enhances beta-cell insulin secretion, thus reducing postprandial and fasting hyperglycemia ( 62 ). Linagliptin (Tradjenta) 105 children and adolescents were randomly assigned 1:1 to oral linagliptin (5mg daily) or placebo ( 60 ). The adjusted mean HbA1c change from baseline at week 26 was 0.33% for linagliptin and 0·68% for the placebo group; the difference was not statistically or clinically significant. None of the adverse events of special interest occurred with DPP-4 inhibitors, such as hypersensitivity reactions, angioedema, angioedema-like events and anaphylaxis, skin lesions, pancreatitis, or hepatic injury, were present. Linagliptin is not approved for adolescents with T2D ( 60 ). Sitagliptin (Januvia) A total of 190 children and adolescents were randomly assigned 1:1 to oral sitagliptin 100 mg daily or placebo ( 63 ). The adjusted mean change in HbA1c from baseline at week 20 was -0.01% for sitagliptin and 0·18% for the placebo group, resulting in a between-group difference of 0.19%, which was not significant. There was no significant difference in the percentage of participants with HbA1c below 7%, with 49.5% in the sitagliptin group and 36.8% in the placebo group. Notably, after 54 weeks, the HbA1c in the sitagliptin group decreased from 7.4% at
