Type 2 Diabetes in Children and Adolescents- A Focus on Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, adolescents, youth, children, years, free, article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, study


with HbA1c below 7%, with 49.5% in the sitagliptin group and 36.8% in the placebo group. Notably, after 54 weeks, the HbA1c in the sitagliptin group decreased from 7.4% at baseline to 7.1%. Sitagliptin is not approved for adolescents with T2D ( 50 ). ANTI-OBESITY PHARMACOTHERAPY FOR TREATMENT OF PEDIATRIC TYPE 2 DIABETES As obesity is a significant risk factor for the development of T2D, the American Diabetes Association (ADA) recommends the use of anti-obesity medications as adjuvant therapy for adults with both T2D and overweight/obesity. In adults, adding anti-obesity medications to a diabetes regimen can improve glycemic control, reduce weight, and decrease the use of anti-diabetes medication ( 64 ). Semaglutide and tirzepatide have shown promise in reducing weight in adults with obesity and T2DM compared to liraglutide ( 65 ). Tirzepatide is a novel dual glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP) and GLP-1 receptor agonist. A study to evaluate tirzepatide in pediatric and adolescent participants with T2D, who are inadequately controlled with metformin, or basal Insulin, or both (SURPASS-PEDS) is currently ongoing. Liraglutide 3.0mg/day A higher dose of liraglutide of 3.0 mg/day (Saxenda ® ) is FDA-approved for obesity in youth aged 12 years and older who weigh ≥ 60kg or have an initial BMI ≥ 30kg/m 2 . The Satiety and Clinical Adipose-Liraglutide Evidence Trial in Adolescents with and without T2D (SCALE-Teens) was a double-blind, placebo-controlled RCT that randomized 251 adolescents to either liraglutide 3.0 mg/day or placebo. However, only two adolescents with T2D were enrolled. Consequently, no conclusive findings can be drawn regarding the impact of high-dose liraglutide on reducing BMI and improving HbA1c in young individuals with T2D. Since almost all adolescents with T2DM have overweight or obesity and could potentially meet the prescribing criteria, it is reasonable to speculate that the results might resemble those observed in adult trials for T2D, potentially leading to reductions in weight and BMI as well as improvements in hyperglycemia. Semaglutide 2.4mg Weekly Semaglutide in its once-weekly injectable GLP-1RA form at doses up to 2.4 mg weekly (Wegovy ® ) has shown significant weight loss in obese children and has now been approved for treatment of obesity in adolescents aged 12 years and older ( 66 ). The mean change in BMI from baseline to week 68 was −16.1% with semaglutide and 0.6% with placebo. Of note, HbA1c decreased 0.4 percentage points in the treatment group compared with 0.1 in the
