Type 2 Diabetes in Children and Adolescents- A Focus on Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, adolescents, youth, children, years, free, article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, study


BMI from baseline to week 68 was −16.1% with semaglutide and 0.6% with placebo. Of note, HbA1c decreased 0.4 percentage points in the treatment group compared with 0.1 in the placebo. However, the impact on youth with T2D has not yet been studied. Semaglutide injection up to 2.0 mg (Ozempic ® ) and oral semaglutide up to 14 mg (Rybelsus ® ) are approved for adults with T2D, but studies in youth with T2D have not yet been reported. SUMMARY: WHICH TREATMENT DO I RECOMMEND TO MY PATIENT? The answer to this pivotal question hinges on the art of personalized medicine. First, it is crucial to recognize that 50% of youth with T2D can maintain good glycemic control on metformin monotherapy, making this agent still an excellent choice for initial therapy. However, several measures can predict the likelihood of glycemic deterioration, including decreased insulin secretion, impaired insulin processing (elevated proinsulin/insulin ratio), and HbA1c concentration after a few months on monotherapy. Longitudinally, a rising proinsulin and an increase in HbA1c of more than 0.5 percentage points over any 6-month period are predictive of loss of glycemic control on monotherapy ( 67 ). If these parameters suggest a risk for deterioration, the next step is to consider the therapeutic objective(s). Is it primarily elevated HbA1c? If so, the best approach may involve selecting a medication known for its efficacy in reducing HbA1c. Is obesity the central concern for the patient? In such cases, exploring pharmaceutical interventions tailored for weight management may be prudent. Does the individual have concerns about needle-based treatments? In such instances, favoring orally administered medications could offer a more suitable solution. If there is an elevated risk of cardiac or renal complications, it would be wise to consider options from the SGLT2 inhibitor group or GLP1 agonist group. In essence, treatment needs to be tailored to the unique needs and circumstances of each individual, ensuring that treatment decisions align with their specific health challenges and objectives. BARIATRIC SURGERY Weight reduction plays a crucial role in the management of T2D because weight loss is associated with improved insulin resistance and glycemic status. Considering the limited efficacy of lifestyle and pharmacologic interventions in treating severe obesity and obesity-related T2D, along with the remarkable weight reduction and remission of T2D observed in youth who undergo bariatric surgery the ADA recommends considering bariatric surgery for adolescents with T2D who have a BMI >35
