Type 2 Diabetes in Children and Adolescents- A Focus on Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, adolescents, youth, children, years, free, article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, study


the remarkable weight reduction and remission of T2D observed in youth who undergo bariatric surgery the ADA recommends considering bariatric surgery for adolescents with T2D who have a BMI >35 kg/m 2 ( 68 ). The two most common bariatric surgeries performed in adolescents with T2D are laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (LSG) and laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (LRYGB). Impact of Bariatric Surgery on Glycemic Control Studies have demonstrated improvement in HbA1c across all age groups. In one study, sixty-four pediatric patients diagnosed with morbid obesity and T2D underwent LSG surgery. The patients’ ages ranged from 5 to 14 years old. Their BMI decreased from 44.6±9.3 to 34.8 ± 9.6 kg/m 2 .Their HbA1c decreased from 6.0±0.8% prior to LSG surgery to 5.4±0.4%, 12 months post-surgery, a change of 10.9% ( p = 0.001) ( 69 ). There was no significant difference in post-operative HbA1c between the age groups. Impact of Bariatric Surgery on T2D Remission Bariatric surgery in adolescents with T2D has a better outcome compared to medical treatment with metformin alone or in combination with rosiglitazone or intensive lifestyle intervention with insulin therapy given for glycemic progression ( 70 ). In a multicenter, nonrandomized, retrospective study of 202 obese adolescents with T2D (before the approval of new drugs for adolescents with T2D), 109 adolescents underwent surgery, and 93 adolescents received nonsurgical treatment (71(. In the surgery group, the remission rate for diabetes was 76%, compared to 6.5% in the medical treatment group. The remission was sustained for the two years of follow-up. Of note, LRYGB had better effects on weight loss and glycemic control than LSG. Impact of Bariatric Surgery on Kidney Outcomes In a three-year longitudinal study, kidney outcomes in youth following bariatric surgery were assessed. Improvement in albuminuria and GFR was observed in those with pre-operative kidney impairment. Among participants with a preoperative eGFR < 90 ml/min/1/73m 2 , eGFR improved from a mean of 76 ml/min/1.73m 2 to 102 ml/min/1.73m 2 . Similarly, in those with an elevated albumin-to-creatinine ratio at baseline (ACR ≥30mg/g), the median ACR decreased from 74 mg/g to 17 mg/g. Estimated GFR and albuminuria remained stable in those without any evidence of pre-operative impairment. The effect of bariatric surgery on diabetic kidney disease was also investigated in adolescents with severe obesity and T2D five years after surgery compared to adolescents receiving medical management in the TODAY study ( 72 ). Elevated albuminuria was
