Type 2 Diabetes in Children and Adolescents- A Focus on Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, adolescents, youth, children, years, free, article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, study


was also investigated in adolescents with severe obesity and T2D five years after surgery compared to adolescents receiving medical management in the TODAY study ( 72 ). Elevated albuminuria was present in 21% of those receiving medical management at baseline, and it increased to 43% at 5 years. Conversely, albuminuria decreased from 27% prior to surgery to 5% at the 5-year follow-up. In adjusted analyses, the medical group had 27-fold higher odds of diabetic kidney disease at 5 years compared to Teen-LABS participants ( 72 - 73 ). Impact of Bariatric Surgery on CVD Events In another analysis, the risk for CVD events in two cohorts of adolescents with T2D and severe obesity undergoing medical or surgical treatment of T2D was assessed. Thirty adolescents who underwent bariatric surgery were matched to 63 who had received metformin alone or in combination with rosiglitazone or an intensive lifestyle intervention, with insulin therapy given for glycemic progression. The BMI of those who underwent bariatric surgery was 54.4±9.5 kg/m 2 , and that of the medical group was BMI 40.5±4.9 kg/m 2 . Although the baseline likelihood of CVD events was higher in the group that underwent bariatric surgery, one year after the surgery, the event risk was significantly lower and sustained at 5-year follow-up, whereas medical therapy was associated with an increase in risk among adolescents with T2D and severe obesity ( 74 ). Adverse Effects of Bariatric Surgery Bariatric surgery in adolescents can lead to various potential complications beyond the first postoperative month. The most commonly reported include gastroesophageal reflux, incisional hernia, treatment failure requiring operative revision, and nutritional deficits ( 50 ). Less frequent complications include stomach cancer, liver necrosis, gallbladder disorders, pancreatic disorders, acute kidney failure, neuromuscular complications, skin complications, and rarely mortality ( 51 ). Summary In summary, bariatric surgery currently outperforms medical management of T2D in adolescents and is the most efficacious treatment for youth-onset T2D, albeit with significant risks and economic implications. However, given the rapidly emerging medical therapies for weight reduction in adults and youth, many of which (e.g., dual-incretin analogs, triple-G agonists ( 75 )) are now achieving degrees of weight loss approaching those seen following surgery, the individual roles of surgical and medical treatment for youth-onset T2D will need continued reassessment in the coming years. COMPLICATIONS AND COMORBIDITIES AMONG ADOLESCENTS WITH T2D Large cohort studies investigating the incidence of complications in children and teenagers
