Type 2 Diabetes in Children and Adolescents- A Focus on Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, adolescents, youth, children, years, free, article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, study


chronic inflammation ( 83 ). While albuminuria is the earliest clinical sign of diabetic kidney disease (DKD), the natural history of DKD begins with hyperfiltration, characterized by an increase in glomerular filtration rate (GFR) >120 mL/min/1.73 m 2 as a consequence of obesity and impaired glucose tolerance ( 84 ). This increase predicts deterioration before other clinical signs appear. The second stage in the evolution of kidney dysfunction, still without clinical manifestations, is a mild reduction in GFR (60-89 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) ( Figure 6 ). Structural changes of the kidney are typical at this stage, yet they are often reversible, making this a critical time for risk factor reduction ( 84 ). Treatment in these early stages involves achieving adequate glycemic control along with lifestyle modification, including increasing physical activity, improving sleep quality, and quitting smoking. Additionally, a healthy diet with lower salt and potassium intake, along with a low protein intake of 0.8 g/kg/day, is recommended ( 68 ). Pharmacological treatment includes control of blood pressure and managing dyslipidemia. Theoretically, medications that improve glycemic control would also provide benefits for preventing and/or treating DKD. GLP1 receptor agonists are reported to have a renal protective effect in adults with T2D. A recent meta-analysis of approximately 60,000 adults with T2DM treated with GLP-1 receptor agonist found a significant reduction in the composite kidney outcome (development of macroalbuminuria, doubling of serum creatinine, 40% or greater decline in eGFR, kidney replacement therapy, or death from kidney disease) when compared to placebo, as well as a trend towards a reduction in worsening kidney function ( 84 ). Similarly, the hemodynamic and natriuretic effects of SGLT2 inhibition are also postulated as protective mechanisms for DKD ( 85 ). However, studies in adolescents with T2D did not show an effect of systolic or diastolic blood pressure ( Table 3 ). Of note, these studies involved relatively small groups of youth, and were short-term. Larger, long-term studies are needed, as well as additional therapeutic options for reducing the risk of DKD, such as mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (MRAs), and endothelin receptor antagonists (ERAs). Dyslipidemia Screening for dyslipidemia should be conducted once optimal glycemic control has been achieved or within 3 months after T2D diagnosis. Initial cholesterol screening can be performed non-fasting. The recommended target values are triglycerides <150 mg/dL (1.7 mmol/L), HDL cholesterol >35 mg/dL (0.91 mmol/L), and LDL cholesterol <100 mg/dL (2.6 mmol/L). If these
