Type 2 Diabetes in Children and Adolescents- A Focus on Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, adolescents, youth, children, years, free, article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, study


stiffness index, and reduced arterial compliance. Additionally, adolescent girls with PCOS have an increased likelihood of experiencing psychiatric comorbidities, such as anxiety and depression, which can negatively impact their health-related quality of life. A menstrual history should be taken on every girl with T2D at the diagnosis and at every follow-up visit. Metformin, in addition to lifestyle modification, is likely to improve menstrual cyclicity and hyperandrogenism in female individuals with T2D. Pregnancy and Contraception In the TODAY study, the maternal and offspring outcomes of young women with youth-onset T2D who experienced one or more pregnancies were evaluated ( 88 ). Over a span of up to 15 years, a total of 260 pregnancies were reported by 141 women. Their average age was 21.5±3.2 years, a mean BMI of 35.6±7.2 kg/m 2 , and an average diabetes duration of 8.1±3.2 years ( 88 ). Complications during pregnancy were identified in 65% of the women. Elevated HbA 1 c levels of ≥8% were observed in 31.9% of the pregnancies, and chronic hypertension complicated 35% of them. Pregnancy loss was observed in 25.3% and preterm birth occurred in 32.6% of pregnancies. Among the offspring, 7.8% of the babies were classified as small for gestational age, 26.8% as large for gestational age, and 17.9% fell into the macrosomic range. Other complications and congenital anomalies were noted in 10% of infants, including anencephaly, renal anomalies, and complications related to prematurity. The rate of known miscarriage for the entire study was 12.3%. The rate of known stillbirths in the cohort was 3%, which is more than triple the reported national rates. The impact of T2D during pregnancy extends beyond the immediate prenatal and birth periods, exerting long-term effects on offsprings. Data pertaining to the diagnosis of diabetes in biological mothers were available for 621 participants in the TODAY study, of whom 301 had never been diagnosed with diabetes, 218 were diagnosed either before or during pregnancy, and 102 were diagnosed after pregnancy ( 89 ). For biological fathers, the data were available for 519 participants, with 352 having no history of diabetes and 167 having paternal diabetes. Notably, it was found that maternal diabetes, but not paternal diabetes, was associated with lower beta-cell function and deterioration of glycemic control over time. These effects remained significant even after accounting for variables such as age, sex, race/ethnicity, and household income ( 89 ). Contraception is indicated in adolescent
