Type 2 Diabetes in Children and Adolescents- A Focus on Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, adolescents, youth, children, years, free, article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, study


of glycemic control over time. These effects remained significant even after accounting for variables such as age, sex, race/ethnicity, and household income ( 89 ). Contraception is indicated in adolescent girls with T2D for several compelling reasons. Firstly, it is a recommended treatment for managing the symptoms of PCOS. Secondly, these young women are at increased risk of unintended pregnancy, which can lead to poor outcomes. Lastly, it is imperative for those treated with potentially teratogenic medications such as ACEis, ARBs, and statins. Unfortunately, despite the evident need, preconception counseling was reported only in 16.3% of women prior to their first pregnancy and only 14.9% used any method of contraception prior to the first pregnancy ( 88 ). This gap in reproductive health care highlights the importance of healthcare providers and support staff addressing this issue promptly and effectively. Although in theory, adolescent girls with T2D without severe obesity, micro- or macrovascular disease, or other cardiovascular risk factors can consider a wide range of contraceptive methods, the practical reality often differs. A significant proportion of these individuals are afflicted by severe obesity, and a considerable number also exhibit elevated blood pressure. Consequently, when morbid obesity, severe hypertension, micro- or macrovascular disease, or multiple cardiovascular risk factors are present, it is advisable to prioritize nonhormonal or progestin-only contraceptive methods ( Figure 7 ) ( 90 ). Diabetic Retinopathy Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is one of the most important causes of visual loss worldwide. DR is often asymptomatic until the very late stages. Given the potential for a rapid rate of progression and the effectiveness of new therapies in slowing deterioration, it is imperative to routinely screen individuals with diabetes for the early detection of retinal changes. It is important to note that direct fundoscopy may be less sensitive than 7-field stereoscopic fundus photography for detecting retinopathy ( 91 ). Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is divided into two major forms: non-proliferative and proliferative, according to the presence of abnormal new blood vessels emanating from the retina. Non-proliferative DR consists of microvascular abnormalities (including microaneurysms, occluded vessels, and dilated or tortuous vessels) primarily in the macula and posterior retina, intraretinal hemorrhages, hard exudates; and the variable presence of nerve-fiber layer infarcts (cotton wool spots). Visual loss is mainly due to the development of macular edema . Proliferative DR is marked by the presence of neovascularization arising from the disc and/or retinal vessels, resulting in preretinal
