Type 2 Diabetes in Children and Adolescents- A Focus on Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, adolescents, youth, children, years, free, article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, study


loss is mainly due to the development of macular edema . Proliferative DR is marked by the presence of neovascularization arising from the disc and/or retinal vessels, resulting in preretinal and vitreous hemorrhage, subsequent fibrosis, and traction retinal detachment resulting in visual loss. In a meta-analysis that included 27 studies involving 5924 children and adolescents ( 91 ) with T2D duration between 6.5-21.0 years, 1.11% had DR less than 2.5 years after T2D diagnosis. The prevalence of DR increased over time, with rates of 9.04% at 2.5 to 5.0 years after T2D diagnosis, and 28.14% more than 5 years after T2D diagnosis. The global prevalence of diabetic retinopathy in pediatric T2D was found to be 6.99%. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) performed in adolescents with T2D in the TODAY study revealed that changes in retinal thickness correlated with HbA1c, fasting glucose, and blood pressure, illustrating the importance of intensive control of hyperglycemia, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia.( 92 ) Among the systemic strategies for the prevention and treatment of diabetic retinopathy, two randomized clinical trials, "The Fenofibrate Intervention and Event Lowering in Diabetes (FIELD) Study and the Action to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes (ACCORD)-Eye Study, documented a reduction in the risk of non-proliferative DR progressing in individuals using fenofibrate ( 93 ). The protective effects of fenofibrate have been attributed to its antioxidative, anti-inflammatory, anti-apoptotic, and anti-angiogenic properties. Other treatments include pan-retinal photocoagulation, intravitreal anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) therapy, integrin antagonists, and anti-inflammatory agents. Corticosteroids remain important second-line therapies for patients with macular edema. Diabetic Neuropathy DIABETIC PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY Diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN) is a cause of significant disability and poor quality of life. Signs and symptoms include sensory loss, paresthesia, and pain. However, subclinical signs of DPN may precede the development of frank neuropathic symptoms, and systematic screening is required to identify DPN in its earliest stages. Studies from USA ( 78 , 94 ), Canada ( 95 ), and India ( 96 ) reported the prevalence of DPN in adolescents with T2D assessed by examination for foot abnormalities, distal vibration perception, and ankle reflexes ( 97 ). In the SEARCH study, the prevalence of peripheral neuropathy assessed after 8 years in 258 adolescents with T2D was 22%, compared with 7% in T1DM ( 98 ). Data from the TODAY Study Group revealed that at baseline, 1.0% of the participants had nerve disease, and the cumulative incidence at 15 years
