Type 2 Diabetes in Children and Adolescents- A Focus on Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, adolescents, youth, children, years, free, article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, study


7% in T1DM ( 98 ). Data from the TODAY Study Group revealed that at baseline, 1.0% of the participants had nerve disease, and the cumulative incidence at 15 years was 32.4% ( 78 ). The risk factors associated with peripheral neuropathy in youth are longer duration of diabetes, older age, male sex, and smoking. Calcium channel a2δ ligands (gabapentin, pregabalin= Lyrica ), serotonin- norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, and tricyclic antidepressants are the most widely used medications for painful DN in adults. These medications are used to treat various presentations of neuropathic pain in children, but there have been no clinical studies devoted to painful DPN and no agents are licensed specifically for painful DN in childhood and youth ( 99 ). “Fortunately, painful DPN is relatively rare in children and youth. AUTONOMIC NEUROPATHY Diabetic autonomic neuropathy (DAN) is a common form of neuropathy in individuals with diabetes mellitus characterized by dysfunction due to impairment of peripheral autonomic nerves, with a wide spectrum of manifestations ( 100 ). DAN that involves autonomic fibers of the enteric nervous system may cause upper and lower gastrointestinal symptoms, including gastroesophageal reflux disease, gastroparesis, and constipation. Additional manifestations include bladder and sexual dysfunction. DAN also involves the cardiovascular system. Cardiovascular autonomic neuropathy (CAN), secondary to the pathology of the autonomic nerve fibers that innervate the heart and blood vessels, results in resting tachycardia, exercise intolerance, orthostatic hypotension, syncope, and silent myocardial infarction and ischemia ( 101 ). A reduction in heart rate variability is an early sign of CAN and was reported in 47% of youth with T2D after a mean disease duration of only 1.7 years ( 102 ). In the SEARCH study, the prevalence of CAN assessed after duration of 8 years in 252 adolescents with T2D was 17% compared with 12% in T1DM ( 103 ). CAN was associated with elevated triglycerides and increased urinary albumin excretion. Cardiovascular Complications T2D is a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease (CVD), including myocardial infarction and stroke. Markers for early CVD include increased arterial stiffness, carotid intima-media thickness, an alteration in the vascular endothelium, and cardiac autonomic neuropathy. Arterial stiffness prevalence was significantly higher among youth with T2D than those with T1D ( 104 ). Arterial stiffness (measured by pulse wave velocity from carotid-femoral, femoral-foot, and carotid-radial), was measured in 388 youth with T2D at a mean age of 21 years and a diabetes duration
