Type 2 Diabetes in Children and Adolescents- A Focus on Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, adolescents, youth, children, years, free, article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, study


T2D were compared to those with obesity (n=226) and those with a healthy weight (BMI <85th percentile; n=238) ( 110 ). An age-dependent pattern emerged, wherein the BMD Z-score in children was higher in the T2D group compared to the obese group. However, in adolescents and young adults, the BMD Z-scores were lower in the T2D group when compared to the obese group. These findings suggest that T2D may have a detrimental impact on bone density, particularly around the age when individuals reach peak bone mass. Considering the elevated fracture risk observed in adults with T2D, the decrease in bone density at a young age raises concerns about potential long-term morbidity and fracture risk in adulthood. Mental Health Comorbidity DEPRESSION As part of routine diabetes care, a total of 197 adolescents and youth diagnosed with T2D, with a mean age of 16.9 years and 57% male, completed the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ) ( 111 ). 19.3% reported elevated depressive symptoms (PHQ score ≥10). Furthermore, in a sample of 53, 18.9% acknowledged thoughts of self-harm. Despite the prevalence of depressive symptoms, only 50.0% of those with depressive symptoms had a documented referral for mental health treatment in the electronic health record after the positive screening outcome. Older age, shorter diabetes duration, a higher HbA1c level, more blood glucose checks per day, and being prescribed oral medications were significantly associated with more depressive symptoms. Results from the TODAY study revealed that older teen girls had the highest rates of clinically significant depressive symptoms ( 112 ). Increased number of stressful life events were associated with elevated depressive symptoms. Depressive symptoms were correlated with low adherence to diabetes treatment, lower psychosocial functioning, and impaired health-related quality of life (QOL). In another study comparing PHQ between adolescents with T2D and T1D, the median PHQ-9 score in females with T2D was significantly greater than in females with T1D, but did not differ between males with T2D and T1D ( 113 ). The association between depression and T2D has been reviewed elsewhere ( 114 ). DISORDERED EATING BEHAVIORS In the TODAY study, out of 678 adolescents with T2D at a mean age of 14.0 years, 6% had clinical and 20% had subclinical levels of binge eating ( 115 ). Moreover, 50.3% of adolescents with T2D who are receiving insulin therapy had disordered eating behaviors (DEB) compared with 21.2% of those with T1DM ( 116 ). Disordered
