Type 2 Diabetes in Children and Adolescents- A Focus on Diagnosis and Treatment
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pubmed, type, type diabetes, adolescents, youth, children, years, free, article, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, study


( 115 ). Moreover, 50.3% of adolescents with T2D who are receiving insulin therapy had disordered eating behaviors (DEB) compared with 21.2% of those with T1DM ( 116 ). Disordered eating behavior is associated with poorer clinical outcomes and psychosocial well-being. Mortality In the SEARCH study, over a median follow-up of 5.3 years, the mortality rate among individuals with T1D was 70.6 deaths per 100,000 patient-years, compared with 185.6 deaths per 100,000 patients-years for those with T2D ( 117 ). . When compared to the general populations of US states, it was observed that the mortality rate for individuals with T2D was significantly higher than expected while this was not the case for individuals with T1DM. Females had higher mortality rates than males. Among adolescents with T2D, the leading underlying cause of death was attributed to transport/motor vehicle accidents followed by accidental poisoning, and intentional self-harm. According to a life expectancy model, it was predicted that youth with T2DM lose approximately 15 years ( 118 ). CONCLUSION A summary of the key points is presented in Table 4 . Table 4. Key Points View in own window • The prevalence of type 2 diabetes (T2D) varies across different countries and regions globally, but there is a consistent upward trend in its occurrence. Large-scale national studies in countries like Sweden, Germany, and India have reported similar increasing trends. • Contrary to common perception, not all adolescents with T2D are severely obese. Only 70-80% fall into this category. • Socioeconomic status plays a significant role in the prevalence of T2D, with lower socioeconomic status being associated with higher incidence in Western countries, while the opposite is observed in low-income countries. • Although adolescents are at higher risk of developing T2D, there are growing reports of T2D cases in children younger than 10 years old. • The gender distribution of T2D varies, with a higher proportion of cases in females in Western countries but a higher proportion in males in the Middle East and China. • Promisingly, there are new medications designed for weight loss, which hold the potential to reduce the high rates of complications associated with T2D in children. • There are low prescription rates for statins and contraception in the management of T2D in adolescents, highlighting potential gaps in medical care. • Many complications of T2D can potentially be reversed if detected and treated aggressively in their early stages. ACKNOWLEGEMENTS
