Overview of Congenital Cardiovascular Anomalies
KEYWORDS: heart, congenital, pulmonary, congenital heart, failure, disease, blood, heart disease, heart failure, flow, left, ductus, arteriosus, syndrome, oxygen


Congenital heart disease is the most common congenital anomaly, occurring in almost 1% of live births (1). Among birth defects, congenital heart disease is the leading cause of infant mortality. The most common congenital heart diseases diagnosed in infancy are muscular and perimembranous ventricular septal defects followed by secundum atrial septal defects, with a total prevalence of 48.4 in 10,000 live births (2, 3, 4). The most common cyanotic congenital heart disease is tetralogy of Fallot, which is twice as prevalent as transposition of the great arteries (4.7 vs. 2.3/10 000 births). Overall, bicuspid aortic valves are the most common congenital defects with a prevalence reported to be as high as 0.5% to 2.0%. Etiology of Congenital Heart Disease Environmental and genetic factors contribute to the development of congenital heart disease. Common environmental factors include maternal illness (eg, diabetes, rubella, systemic lupus erythematosus) or maternal intake of teratogenic agents (eg, lithium, isotretinoin, antiseizure drugs). Maternal age is a known risk factor for certain genetic conditions, especially Down syndrome, that may include cardiac defects. It is unclear whether maternal age is an independent risk factor for congenital heart disease. Paternal age may also be a risk factor (1). Certain numerical chromosomal abnormalities (aneuploidies), such as trisomy 21 (Down syndrome), trisomy 18, trisomy 13, and monosomy X (Turner syndrome), are strongly associated with congenital heart disease. However, these abnormalities account for only 5 to 6% of patients with congenital heart disease. Many other cases involve subchromosomal deletions (microdeletions), subchromosomal duplications, or single-gene mutations. Often, these mutations cause congenital syndromes affecting multiple organs in addition to the heart. Examples include DiGeorge syndrome (microdeletion in 22q11.2) and Williams (sometimes known as Williams-Beuren) syndrome (microdeletion in 7p11.23). Single-gene defects that cause syndromes associated with congenital heart disease include mutations in fibrillin-1 (Marfan syndrome), TXB5 (Holt-Oram syndrome), and PTPN11 (Noonan syndrome). Single-gene defects can also cause isolated (ie, nonsyndromic) congenital heart defects. No identifiable genetic etiology is detected in about 72% of patients with congenital heart disease (2, 3, 4). The recurrence risk of congenital heart disease in a family depends on the cause. Risk is negligible in de novo mutations, 2 to 5% in nonsyndromic multifactorial congenital heart disease, and 50% when an autosomal dominant mutation is the cause. The identification of a bicuspid aortic valve in an individual merits family screening in view of the reported familial prevalence of 9% (5). It is important
