Overview of Congenital Cardiovascular Anomalies
KEYWORDS: heart, congenital, pulmonary, congenital heart, failure, disease, blood, heart disease, heart failure, flow, left, ductus, arteriosus, syndrome, oxygen


mutation is the cause. The identification of a bicuspid aortic valve in an individual merits family screening in view of the reported familial prevalence of 9% (5). It is important to identify genetic factors because more patients with congenital heart disease are surviving into adulthood and potentially starting families. Normal Fetal Circulation Fetal circulation is marked by Right-to-left shunting of blood around the unventilated lungs through a patent ductus arteriosus (connecting the pulmonary artery to the aorta) and foramen ovale (connecting 2/18 the right and left atria) Shunting is encouraged by high pulmonary arteriolar resistance and relatively low resistance to blood flow in the systemic (including placental) circulation. About 90 to 95% of the right heart output bypasses the lungs and goes directly to the systemic circulation. The fetal ductus arteriosus is kept open by low fetal systemic PaO2 (about 25 mm Hg) along with locally produced prostaglandins. The foramen ovale is kept open by differences in atrial pressures: left atrial pressure is relatively low because little blood is returned from the lungs, but right atrial pressure is relatively high because large volumes of blood return from the placenta. 3/18 Normal Circulation in a Fetus In the fetus, blood entering the right side of the heart has already been oxygenated via the placenta. Because the lungs are not ventilated, only a small amount of blood needs to go through the pulmonary artery. Most of the blood from the right side of the heart bypasses the lungs through the Foramen ovale Ductus arteriosus Normally, these 2 structures close shortly after birth. Red arrows represent the most highly oxygenated fetal blood (oxygen saturation ≥ 65%). Blue arrows represent the least highly oxygenated blood (oxygen saturation ≤ 45%). Purple arrows represent intermediate oxygen saturation (oxygen saturation 50–60%). Note that oxygen saturation throughout is significantly lower than in postnatal life. 4/18 Perinatal changes Profound changes to this system occur after the first few breaths, resulting in Increased pulmonary blood flow Functional closure of the foramen ovale Pulmonary arteriolar resistance drops acutely as a result of vasodilation caused by lung expansion, increased PaO2, and reduced PaCO2. The elastic forces of the ribs and chest wall decrease pulmonary interstitial pressure, further enhancing blood flow through pulmonary capillaries. Increased venous return from the lungs raises left atrial pressure, thus reducing the pressure differential between left and right atria; this effect contributes to the functional closure of the
