Overview of Congenital Cardiovascular Anomalies
KEYWORDS: heart, congenital, pulmonary, congenital heart, failure, disease, blood, heart disease, heart failure, flow, left, ductus, arteriosus, syndrome, oxygen


Classification of Congenital Heart Anomalies) as Cyanotic Acyanotic (left-to-right shunts or obstructive lesions) The physiologic consequences of congenital heart anomalies vary greatly, ranging from a heart murmur or discrepancy in pulses in an asymptomatic child to severe cyanosis, heart failure, or circulatory collapse. TABLE Classification of Congenital Heart Anomalies* Classification Examples 6/18 Classification Examples Cyanotic Tetralogy of Fallot Transposition of the great arteries Tricuspid atresia Pulmonary atresia — Persistent truncus arteriosus Total anomalous pulmonary venous return Acyanotic Ventricular septal defect Atrial septal defect Left-to-right shunt Patent ductus arteriosus Atrioventricular septal defect Pulmonic stenosis Aortic stenosis Aortic coarctation Obstructive Hypoplastic left heart syndrome (often also manifests with cyanosis, which may be mild) * In approximate decreasing order of frequency. Cyanotic heart anomalies Varying amounts of deoxygenated venous blood are shunted to the left heart (right-to-left shunt), reducing systemic arterial oxygen saturation. If there is > 5 g/dL (> 50 g/L) of deoxygenated hemoglobin, cyanosis results. Complications of persistent cyanosis include polycythemia, clubbing, thromboembolism (including stroke), bleeding disorders, brain 7/18 abscess, and hyperuricemia. Hypercyanotic spells can occur in infants with unrepaired tetralogy of Fallot or other complex congenital defects with dynamic subpulmonic stenosis and a ventricular defect. Depending on the anomaly, pulmonary blood flow may be reduced, normal, or increased (often resulting in heart failure in addition to cyanosis), resulting in cyanosis of variable severity. Heart murmurs are variably audible and are not specific. Left-to-right shunts Oxygenated blood from the left heart (left atrium or left ventricle) or the aorta shunts to the right heart (right atrium or right ventricle) or the pulmonary artery through an opening or communication between the 2 sides. Immediately after birth, pulmonary vascular resistance is high and flow through this communication may be minimal or bidirectional. Within the first 24 to 48 hours of life, however, the pulmonary vascular resistance progressively falls, at which point blood will increasingly flow from left to right. The additional blood flow to the right side increases pulmonary blood flow and pulmonary artery pressure to a varying degree. The greater the increase, the more severe the symptoms; a small left-to-right shunt typically does not cause symptoms or signs. High-pressure shunts (those at the ventricular or great artery level) become apparent several days to a few weeks after birth; low-pressure shunts (atrial septal defects) become apparent considerably later. If untreated, elevated pulmonary blood flow and pulmonary artery pressure may lead to pulmonary vascular
