Overview of Congenital Cardiovascular Anomalies
KEYWORDS: heart, congenital, pulmonary, congenital heart, failure, disease, blood, heart disease, heart failure, flow, left, ductus, arteriosus, syndrome, oxygen


to a few weeks after birth; low-pressure shunts (atrial septal defects) become apparent considerably later. If untreated, elevated pulmonary blood flow and pulmonary artery pressure may lead to pulmonary vascular disease and eventually Eisenmenger syndrome. Large left-to-right shunts (eg, large ventricular septal defect [VSD], patent ductus arteriosus [PDA]) cause excess pulmonary blood flow and left ventricular volume overload, which may lead to signs of heart failure and during infancy often result in failure to thrive. A large left-to-right shunt also leads to lower lung compliance and higher airway resistance. These factors increase the likelihood of hospitalization in infants with respiratory syncytial virus or other upper or lower respiratory tract infections. Obstructive lesions Blood flow is obstructed, causing a pressure gradient across the obstruction. The resulting pressure overload proximal to the obstruction may cause ventricular hypertrophy and heart failure. The most obvious manifestation is a heart murmur, which results from turbulent flow through the obstructed (stenotic) point. Examples are congenital aortic stenosis, which accounts for 3 to 6% of congenital heart anomalies, and congenital pulmonic stenosis, which accounts for 8 to 12% (1, 2). Heart failure Some congenital heart anomalies (eg, bicuspid aortic valve, mild aortic stenosis) do not significantly alter hemodynamics. Other anomalies cause pressure or volume overload, sometimes causing heart failure. Heart failure occurs when cardiac output is insufficient to meet the body’s metabolic needs or when the heart cannot adequately handle venous return, causing pulmonary congestion (in left ventricular failure), edema primarily in dependent tissues and abdominal viscera (in right ventricular failure), or both. Heart failure in infants and children has many causes other than congenital heart anomalies (see table Common Causes of Heart Failure in Children). 8/18 TABLE Common Causes of Heart Failure in Children Age at Onset Causes Chronic anemia with subsequent high- output heart failure Large systemic arteriovenous fistulas (eg, cerebral vein of Galen shunt) In utero Myocardial dysfunction secondary to myocarditis Sustained intrauterine tachycardia Any of the above Critical aortic stenosis or critical coarctation Ebstein anomaly with severe tricuspid and/or pulmonic regurgitation Hypoplastic left heart syndrome Intrauterine or neonatal paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia Metabolic disorders (eg, hypoglycemia, Birth through first few days hypothermia, severe metabolic acidosis) Neonatal sepsis Perinatal asphyxia with myocardial damage Severe intrauterine anemia (hydrops fetalis) Total anomalous pulmonary venous return with severe obstruction (usually infracardiac type) Up to 1 month Any of the above Coarctation of the aorta, with or without associated
