Overview of Congenital Cardiovascular Anomalies
KEYWORDS: heart, congenital, pulmonary, congenital heart, failure, disease, blood, heart disease, heart failure, flow, left, ductus, arteriosus, syndrome, oxygen


systolic murmurs. Systolic murmurs and thrills are most prominent at the surface closest to their point of origin, making location diagnostically helpful. Increased flow across the pulmonary or aortic valve causes a midsystolic crescendo-decrescendo (ejection systolic) murmur. Regurgitant flow through an atrioventricular valve or flow across a 11/18 ventricular septal defect causes a holosystolic (pansystolic) murmur that obscures the first heart sound (S1) as its intensity increases. Patent ductus arteriosus typically causes a continuous murmur that is uninterrupted by the S2 because blood flows through the ductus during systole and diastole. This murmur is 2-toned, having a more pronounced sound during systole (when driven by higher pressure) than during diastole. Cyanosis Finger Clubbing Central cyanosis is characterized by bluish discoloration of the lips and tongue and/or nail beds; it occurs when there is an increase in deoxygenated hemoglobin (at least 5 g/dL [50 g/L]) and implies a low blood oxygen level (usually oxygen saturation < 85%). Perioral cyanosis and acrocyanosis (cyanosis of the hands and feet) without lip or nail bed cyanosis is caused by peripheral vasoconstriction rather than hypoxemia and is a common, normal finding in neonates. Older children with longstanding cyanosis often develop clubbing of the nail beds. Heart failure In infants, symptoms or signs of heart failure include Tachycardia Tachypnea Dyspnea during feeding Diaphoresis, especially during feeding Restlessness, irritability Hepatomegaly Failure to thrive 12/18 Dyspnea during feeding causes inadequate intake and poor growth, which may be worsened by increased metabolic demands in heart failure and frequent respiratory tract infections. In contrast to adults and older children, most infants do not have distended neck veins and dependent edema; however, they occasionally have edema in the periorbital area. Hepatomegaly is a particularly prominent feature of heart failure in infants because of the distensibility of the liver capsule at this age. Findings in older children with heart failure are similar to those in adults. Other manifestations of heart defects In neonates, circulatory shock may be the first manifestation of certain anomalies (eg, hypoplastic left heart syndrome, critical aortic stenosis, interrupted aortic arch, coarctation of the aorta). Neonates appear extremely ill with pale or cyanotic mucous membranes, cold extremities, diminished pulses, low blood pressure, and reduced response to stimuli. Chest pain in children is usually noncardiac. In infants, chest pain may be manifested by unexplained marked irritability, particularly during or after feeding, and can be caused by anomalous origin of the
