Overview of Congenital Cardiovascular Anomalies
KEYWORDS: heart, congenital, pulmonary, congenital heart, failure, disease, blood, heart disease, heart failure, flow, left, ductus, arteriosus, syndrome, oxygen


in children is usually noncardiac. In infants, chest pain may be manifested by unexplained marked irritability, particularly during or after feeding, and can be caused by anomalous origin of the left coronary artery from the pulmonary artery. In older children and adolescents, chest pain due to a cardiac etiology is usually associated with exertion and may be caused by a coronary anomaly, pericarditis, myocarditis, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, or severe aortic stenosis. Syncope, typically without warning symptoms and often in association with exertion, may occur with certain anomalies including cardiomyopathy (hypertrophic or dilated), anomalous origin of a coronary artery, or inherited arrhythmia syndromes (eg, long QT syndrome, catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia [CPVT], Brugada syndrome). High school–age athletes are most commonly affected. Diagnosis of Congenital Heart Disease Screening by pulse oximetry Cardiac physical examination Chest x-ray and ECG Echocardiography Sometimes cardiac MRI or CT angiography, cardiac catheterization with angiocardiography When present, heart murmurs, cyanosis, abnormal pulses, or manifestations of heart failure suggest congenital heart disease. In neonates with these findings, echocardiography is done to confirm the diagnosis of congenital heart disease. If the only abnormality is cyanosis, methemoglobinemia also should be ruled out. Although echocardiography is typically diagnostic, in select cases, cardiac MRI or CT angiography may clarify important anatomic details. Cardiac catheterization with angiocardiography is occasionally needed to confirm the diagnosis or to assess severity of the anomaly; however, it is generally done only for therapeutic purposes. 13/18 Newborn Screening for Congenital Heart Disease Manifestations of congenital heart disease may be subtle or absent in neonates, and failure or delay in detecting critical congenital heart disease, particularly in the 10 to 15% of neonates who require surgical or inpatient medical treatment in the first hours or days of life, may lead to neonatal mortality or significant morbidity. Thus, universal screening for critical congenital heart disease using pulse oximetry is recommended for all neonates before hospital discharge (1). The screening is done when infants are ≥ 24 hours old and is considered positive if ≥ 1 of the following is present: Any oxygen saturation measurement is < 90%. The oxygen saturation measurements in both the right hand and foot are < 95% on 3 separate measurements taken 1 hour apart. There is > 3% absolute difference between the oxygen saturation in the right hand (preductal) and foot (postductal) on 3 separate, paired measurements taken 1 hour apart. All neonates with a positive screening
