Overview of Congenital Cardiovascular Anomalies
KEYWORDS: heart, congenital, pulmonary, congenital heart, failure, disease, blood, heart disease, heart failure, flow, left, ductus, arteriosus, syndrome, oxygen


3% absolute difference between the oxygen saturation in the right hand (preductal) and foot (postductal) on 3 separate, paired measurements taken 1 hour apart. All neonates with a positive screening result should undergo a comprehensive evaluation for congenital heart disease and other causes of hypoxemia (eg, various respiratory disorders, central nervous system depression, sepsis) typically including a chest x-ray, ECG, echocardiography, and often blood testing. Sensitivity of pulse oximetry screening is slightly > 75%; the congenital heart disease lesions most often missed are left heart obstructive lesions (eg, coarctation of the aorta). Treatment of Congenital Heart Disease Medical stabilization of heart failure (eg, with diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme [ACE] inhibitors, beta-blockers, digoxin, spironolactone, salt restriction and, in selected cases, supplemental oxygen or prostaglandin E1) Surgical repair or transcatheter intervention Treatment of heart failure varies widely depending on the etiology. Definitive therapy typically requires correction of the underlying problem. After medical stabilization of acute heart failure symptoms or cyanosis, most children require surgical or transcatheter repair; the exceptions are certain ventricular septal defects that are likely to become smaller or close with time or mild valve dysfunction. Transcatheter procedures include Balloon atrial septostomy for palliation of severely cyanotic neonates with transposition of the great arteries Balloon dilation of severe aortic valve stenosis or pulmonic valve stenosis Transcatheter closure of cardiac shunts (most often atrial septal defect and patent ductus arteriosus) Transcatheter placement of pulmonary valve Balloon dilation with or without stenting of vascular stenoses, most commonly pulmonary artery stenosis Heart failure in neonates Acute, severe heart failure or cyanosis during the first week of life is a medical emergency. Secure vascular access should be established, preferably via an umbilical venous catheter. When critical congenital heart disease is suspected or confirmed, an IV infusion of prostaglandin E1 should be started at 0.05 to 0.1 mcg/kg/minute. Keeping the ductus open is important because most cardiac lesions manifesting at this age are ductal-dependent for either systemic blood flow (eg, hypoplastic left heart syndrome, critical aortic stenosis, coarctation of the aorta) or pulmonary blood flow (cyanotic lesions such as critical pulmonary stenosis, pulmonary atresia or severe tetralogy of Fallot). Mechanical ventilation is often necessary in critically ill neonates. Supplemental oxygen should be given judiciously or even withheld because supplemental oxygen can decrease pulmonary vascular resistance, which is harmful to infants with certain defects (eg, hypoplastic left heart syndrome). Other therapies for neonatal heart failure include diuretics,
