Overview of Congenital Cardiovascular Anomalies
KEYWORDS: heart, congenital, pulmonary, congenital heart, failure, disease, blood, heart disease, heart failure, flow, left, ductus, arteriosus, syndrome, oxygen


withheld because supplemental oxygen can decrease pulmonary vascular resistance, which is harmful to infants with certain defects (eg, hypoplastic left heart syndrome). Other therapies for neonatal heart failure include diuretics, inotropic drugs, and drugs to reduce afterload. The diuretic furosemide is given as an initial bolus of 1 mg/kg IV and titrated based on urine output. Infusions of the inotropes dopamine or dobutamine can support blood pressure but have the disadvantage of increasing heart rate and afterload, thus increasing myocardial oxygen consumption. They are infrequently used in infants with congenital heart disease. Milrinone, frequently used in postoperative patients with congenital heart disease, is both a positive inotrope and a vasodilator. Dopamine, dobutamine, and milrinone all have the potential to increase the risk of arrhythmias. Nitroprusside, a pure vasodilator, may be used for postoperative hypertension. It is started at 0.3 to 0.5 mcg/kg/minute and titrated to desired effect (usual maintenance dose is about 3 mcg/kg/minute). Heart failure in older infants and children Therapies often include a diuretic (eg, furosemide 0.5 to 1 mg/kg IV or 1 to 3 mg/kg orally every 8 to 24 hours, titrated upward as needed) and an ACE inhibitor (eg, captopril 0.1 to 0.3 mg/kg orally 3 times a day). A potassium-sparing diuretic (eg, spironolactone 1 mg/kg orally once or twice a day, titrated up to 2 mg/kg/dose if needed) may be useful, particularly if high-dose furosemide is required. Beta-blockers (eg, carvedilol, metoprolol) are often added for children with chronic congestive heart failure. Newer medications used in adults for heart failure, such as sacubitril/valsartan and sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 (SGLT-2) inhibitors, may be useful, but data are limited in the pediatric population (1). Digoxin is used less often than in the past but may still have a role in children with heart failure who have large left-to-right shunts and in certain postoperative patients with congenital heart disease (dose varies by age; see table Oral Digoxin Dosage in Children). Notably, digoxin has been shown to reduce mortality in single-ventricle patients after the Norwood procedure and before the second stage surgery 15/18 (2). Use of digoxin as a front-line drug in the treatment of neonatal supraventricular tachycardia has declined because it results in higher mortality than treatment with propranolol (3). However, if Wolff- Parkinson-White syndrome is not present, it may be a useful as a primary agent if propranolol is ineffective or as a second agent combined with propranolol or other
