Overview of Congenital Cardiovascular Anomalies
KEYWORDS: heart, congenital, pulmonary, congenital heart, failure, disease, blood, heart disease, heart failure, flow, left, ductus, arteriosus, syndrome, oxygen


if Wolff- Parkinson-White syndrome is not present, it may be a useful as a primary agent if propranolol is ineffective or as a second agent combined with propranolol or other antiarrhythmic drugs. TABLE Oral Digoxin Dosage in Children* Total Digitalizing Dose† Age Maintenance Dose ‡ (mcg/kg) Preterm neonates 20 2.5 mcg/kg twice daily Term neonates 30 4–5 mcg/kg twice daily 1 month–2 years 30–50 5–6 mcg/kg twice daily 2–5 years 30–40 4–5 mcg/kg twice daily 6–10 years 20–35 2.5–4 mcg/kg twice daily > 10 years or weight >30 0.125 mg twice daily or 10–15 kg§ 0.25 mg once daily * All doses are based on ideal body weight for children with normal renal function. The IV dose is 75% of the oral dose. † A digitalizing dose is now used infrequently. It is used most often when treating arrhythmias or acute heart failure. The total digitalizing dose is usually given over 24 hours with half of the dose given initially, followed by one fourth of the dose given twice, separated by 8- to 12-hour intervals; ECG monitoring is necessary. ‡ The initial maintenance dose is 25% of the digitalizing dose, given in 2 divided doses. Adjust dose based on clinical response and drug levels. § Not to exceed adult oral digitalizing dose of 1–1.5 mg. Supplemental oxygen may lessen hypoxemia and alleviate respiratory distress in heart failure; when possible, fractional inspired oxygen (FIO2) should be kept < 40% to minimize the risk of pulmonary epithelial damage. Supplemental oxygen must be used with caution, if at all, in patients with left-to-right shunt lesions or left heart obstructive disease because it may exacerbate pulmonary overcirculation. In general, a healthy diet, including salt restriction, is recommended, although dietary modifications may be needed depending on the specific disorder and manifestations. Heart failure increases metabolic demands and the associated dyspnea makes feeding more difficult. In infants with critical congenital 16/18 heart disease, particularly those with left heart obstructive lesions, feedings may be withheld to minimize the risk of necrotizing enterocolitis. In infants with heart failure due to left-to-right-shunt lesions, enhanced caloric content feedings are recommended; these feedings increase calories supplied and do so with less risk of volume overload. Some children require tube feedings to maintain growth. If these measures do not result in weight gain, surgical repair of the anomaly is indicated. Endocarditis prophylaxis Guidelines of the American Heart Association for prevention of endocarditis
