4 Vitamin D and HIV
KEYWORDS: vitamin, hiv, studies, vih, htiw, nimativ, puorg, study, dna, individuals, status, living, tra, vitamin status, associated


to those without . Another study with HIV-infected (HL-60) cells showed that anti-TNF antibodies blocked the ability of 1,25(OH)D to 2 3 induce viral replication . Human cELL cuLturE StudiES A number of human cell culture studies have focused on the association between vitamin D and HIV, including the role of vitamin D receptor (VDR). VDR polymorphisms (rs1544410_GG, rs1544410_AA) were associated with altered (1) response to vitamin D in cell differentiation mark- ers (CD14 inhibition, CD209 induction), and (2) HIV-1-LTR reporter gene activity with vitamin D presence . This finding was supported by previous literature, including compu- tational and cell line studies . Other human cell culture studies more specifically focused on the bidirectional relationship between vitamin D and HIV and addressed the following questions: (1) How does vitamin D affect HIV (including disease progres- sion and host response, as well as in the context of other comorbidities)? and (2) How does HIV infection affect vitamin D metabolism? How Does Vitamin D Affect HIV? A number of studies considered the effects of vitamin D (pretreatment or blood concentration) on HIV-related outcomes in leukocytes isolated from patients. Some studies involved cell cultures from patients with HIV infection, or no infection (to assess HIV exposure). HIV outcome indicators included (1) HIV disease progression and severity (HIV-1 infection, viral replication), (2) immuno- logical and cellular responses to HIV (autophagy), and (3) other comorbidities (tuberculosis). HIV Disease Progression and Severity Studies that pretreated monocytes or macrophages with vitamin D (1,25(OH)D, including its 3 2 3 analog 1,25(OH) -16-ene-23-yne-26,27-F -D) and subsequent HIV infection reported inconsistent 2 6 3 findings. 1,25(OH)D pretreatment of freshly isolated blood monocytes reduced HIV-1 infection (Connor and Rigby, 1991) and inhibited HIV viral replication in two studies. In contrast, other studies reported that vitamin D and analogs enhanced HIV infection 3.5-fold and that there were no effects of 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) on HIV-1 production or CD4 expression (Connor and Rigby, 1991). Vitamin D and HIV 157 Immunological and Cellular Responses to HIV Several human macrophage studies have established a potential autophagic mechanism involving 1,25(OH) D inhibition of HIV. Physiological concentrations of 1α,25(OH) D induced autophagy 2 3 2 3 (in a mechanism dependent on phosphatidyl 3-kinase, ATG-5, and Beclin-1), which has a dose- dependent inhibition of HIV-1 replication (Campbell and Spector, 2011). Subsequent studies delin- eated the role of an antimicrobial peptide (cathelicidin), which further corroborated the previous result. The
