4 Vitamin D and HIV
KEYWORDS: vitamin, hiv, studies, vih, htiw, nimativ, puorg, study, dna, individuals, status, living, tra, vitamin status, associated


has a dose- dependent inhibition of HIV-1 replication (Campbell and Spector, 2011). Subsequent studies delin- eated the role of an antimicrobial peptide (cathelicidin), which further corroborated the previous result. The activation of toll-like receptor (TLR) 8 was associated with increased expression of cathelicidin, vitamin D receptor (VDR), and cytochrome P450, family 27, subfamily B, poly- peptide 1 (CYP27B1) (Campbell and Spector, 2012a). Physiological concentrations of 1,25-dihy- droxycholecalciferol induced cathelicidin (LL37) production and autophagy in macrophages from patients with HIV–tuberculosis (TB) co-infections (Campbell and Spector, 2012b). Moreover, another study confirmed that the inhibition of HIV replication occurred via an autophagic pathway dependent on vitamin D and cathelicidin (Campbell and Spector, 2012a). Several studies found that vitamin D improved the function (motility, maturation, activation) of monocytes and mac- rophages. In monocytes from patients with AIDS, the exogenous administration of 1,25(OH) D 2 3 improved migratory capacity, which was related to a chemoattractant (formyl peptide [FMLP]) and its receptor . Separately, in monocytes from individuals with HIV infections (symptomatic and asymptomatic), 1,25(OH) D was associated with improved growth and matura- tion ; a negative correlation was observed between response to 1,25(OH) D and CD4+ lymphocyte counts in the blood of patients with HIV. In another study involving peripheral blood monocytes/macrophages of patients with HIV, the addition of vitamin D-binding protein (Gc protein) macrophage-activating factor (MAF) resulted in monocyte/macrophage activation . Other Comorbidities Three studies considered the role of vitamin D in Mycobacterium co-infections with HIV. Among mac- rophages with HIV–TB co-infection, physiological concentrations of 1α,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol (1,25(OH)D) inhibited replication of HIV and TB via an autophagic mechanism dependent on 2 3 cathelicidin and phagosomal maturation (Campbell and Spector, 2012c). Additionally, authors con- firmed that the autophagic flux involves cAMP and phagosomal maturation (not only autophagy) (Campbell and Spector, 2012b). Separately, another study found that 1,25(OH)D supplementa- tion resulted in decreased or no change in bacterial replication of Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) in macrophages of individuals with HIV; however, 1,25(OH)D increased bacteria in cells of individuals without HIV . How Does HIV Infection Affect Vitamin D Metabolism? Several studies considered the effects of HIV infection on vitamin D and key factors in vita- min D metabolism, including VDR. One study with monocytes (from human patients) showed that, in the presence of 25-hydroxyvitamin D , the p17 matrix protein of HIV-1 is able to induce 1α-hydroxylase activity and fructose 1,6-bisphosphatase gene expression . Given the structural
