4 Vitamin D and HIV
KEYWORDS: vitamin, hiv, studies, vih, htiw, nimativ, puorg, study, dna, individuals, status, living, tra, vitamin status, associated


showed that, in the presence of 25-hydroxyvitamin D , the p17 matrix protein of HIV-1 is able to induce 1α-hydroxylase activity and fructose 1,6-bisphosphatase gene expression . Given the structural similarities between p17 and interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) and shared function in inducing 1α-hydroxylase, the authors posited that their findings suggest that p17 and IFN-γ facilitate selective conversion of 25-hydroxyvitamin D to 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (Besancon et 3 3 al., 1997). Separately, in an epigenetic study considering the effects of HIV-induced methylation of vitamin D receptor on T cells, HIV-infected T cells showed increased VDR–cytosine–phos- phate–guanine (CpG) dinucleotide methylation and DNA-(cytosine-5-)-methyltransferase-3-beta (Dnmt3b) expression, but reduced VDR expression . The authors suggest that VDR methylation (by HIV) is one factor that mediates T-cell apoptosis through the reactive oxygen species (ROS) response. 158 Nutrition and HIV: Epidemiological Evidence to Public Health obSErvationaL StudiES among individuaLS Living WitH Hiv For this section, we included any studies that reported (1) cross-sectional or baseline data, regard- less of the overall study design (such as randomized control trials and observational studies with longitudinal data); and (2) associations between vitamin D and health indicators among individuals living with HIV. Vitamin D Status Over 160 studies have assessed vitamin D status among individuals living with HIV. Most stud- ies were conducted among individuals in North America (United States and Canada) or Europe (including Spain, Italy, France, Norway, Denmark, Belgium, Germany, Netherlands, United Kingdom, Austria, Switzerland, and Slovenia). Other studies included individuals residing in Africa (Zimbabwe, Uganda, Malawi, Tanzania, Guinea Bissau, and South Africa), Asia (Thailand, India, China, Cambodia, Nepal, Turkey, Israel, and Iran), South America (Brazil and Colombia), and Australia. Assessments of vitamin D status included radioimmunoassays (RIAs), chemilumines- cence immunoassays (CLIAs), liquid chromatography/mass spectroscopy/tandem spectroscopy (LC/MS/TS), high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA), enzyme immunoassays (EIA), electrochemiluminescence immunoassays (ECLIA), competitive binding assays (CBAs), and automated immunoassays. Study population sizes ranged widely, from 16 to 2994 individuals (Jaeger et al., 1994; Allavena et al., 2012). Among in vivo studies reporting blood concentrations of vitamin D, a smaller proportion of studies were among infants, children, and adolescents (<18 years). From available data of 25(OH)D concentrations in plasma or serum of study populations (or subpopulations), mean (8.1–61.8 ng/mL) and median (6–57 ng/mL) levels included wide ranges. 1,25(OH)D concentrations ranged considerably also, based on mean (22.3–56.0 pg/mL) and median (22–97 pg/mL) values. Although definitions of low vitamin D status (deficient, insufficient) var- ied
