TYPEOriginalResearch
KEYWORDS: phage, jdcl-, resistant, resistance, writing, investigation, original, methodology, draft, strains, clones, phages, variant, phage resistance, garc


solidified and dried, 2.5 mL of a cell Antibiotic susceptibility suspensionindistilledwaterwithaturbidityof0.08OD was 600nm inoculated at each well’s center. The plate was incubated under Susceptibility to antibiotics was evaluated by the microdilution static conditions at 37°C for 24 h. Subsequently, the plaque was method using relevant antibiotics for P. aeruginosa (amikacin, photographed, and the images were analyzed as reported before ceftazidime, ciprofloxacin, colistin, gentamicin, levofloxacin, (Morales-Sotoetal.,2015)toquantifytheswarmingsurface. FrontiersinCellularandInfectionMicrobiology 04 frontiersin.org Garc´ıa-Cruzetal. T3S protein secretion assay Results and immunoblotting Slight changes in the genome of the phage P. aeruginosa strains were grown overnight in LB broth at variant alter attachment, latency, and 37°Cwithshakingat200rpm.Precultureswereusedtoinoculate burst size (initial turbidity OD 0.05) LB supplemented with 10 mM 600nm MgCl 2 ,0.5mMCaCl 2 and5mMEGTApH7.4.Bacterialcultures Electron microscopy of phage jDCL-PA6 and the spontaneous were grown under the same conditions until they reached a variantjDCL-PA6aisolatedfromajDCL-PA6plaqueofalawnofP. centrifuged at 16,300 x g for 2 min. The supernatant was thegenomeanalysisshowedtheybelongtotheCaudoviricetesclass, transferred to a 1.5 mL microtube and centrifuged again to genusPbunavirus,bothphageshave64kbgenomelength(Figures1A, remove residual bacteria. Nine-hundred milliliters of B). The phages had a GC content of 55.5% and 93 genes (none of supernatant was taken, and 100 mL of trichloroacetic acid which correspond to tRNA genes), and the closest related known (TCA) was added and incubated for 12 h at 4°C. Precipitated phageisPseudomonasphagevB_PaeM_FBPa34(ON857937.1). proteinsfromthesupernatantwereharvestedbycentrifugationat Thegenomecomparisonbetweenthemrevealedthattheydiffer 18,100 x g at 4°C for 30 min. The resulting protein pellet was only in 4 nucleotides. The four mutations led to two amino acid resuspendedin1XSDS-Pagesamplebufferwith10%v/vsaturated substitutions; one G to T mutation in the gene encoding the TRIS,andthebuffersamplevolumewasnormalizedaccordingto baseplate wedge subunit at position 1109 leading to a G to V turbidity of each culture. The secreted proteins were solved on amino acid substitution at position 370; the other two mutations 15% SDS-PAGE and transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane, changedtwoadjacent CtoA andGinthegeneencoding thetail blocked overnight with 5% w/v non-fat milk in TBS-T (Tris fiberproteinatpositions2710and2711,respectively,leadingtoaP buffered saline with 0.1% v/v Tween 20). The membrane was toRsubstitutionatposition904oftheprotein(Figure1C).Phages rinsed with TBS-T and probed against anti-ExoU polyclonal jDCL-PA6andjDCL-PA6awerecharacterizedbyadsorptionand antibodies. The immunoblotting was carried-out using a byaone-stepinfectioncurvetodeterminethelengthofthelatency Western Chemiluminescent HRP Substrate Kit (Millipore), and phaseandtheburstsize.Ourresultsrevealedthattheattachmentof proteinbandswerevisualizedonaC-DigitBlotScanner(Li-Cor). the original phage to the PA14 strain was faster and reached a higherpercentagethantheattachmentofthevariantjDCL-PA6a (Figure 2A), which is consistent with the mutations found in the variant’s tail fiber protein, which may have altered structures Galleria mellonella infection important forthe phage interaction with its receptor. The latency lengthoftheoriginalphagewasshorterthanthatofthelatencyfor Strains were inoculated in LB medium, cultured overnight at thevariant(10minvs20min),butthephageproductionwas2.25- 37°Cat200rpm,re-inoculatedtoaturbidityofOD 0.05,and
