Mitral Stenosis
KEYWORDS: mitral, valve, patients, stenosis, mitral stenosis, pulmonary, atrial, left, symptoms, atrial fibrillation, fibrillation, commissurotomy, pulmonary hypertension, hypertension, diastolic


Mitral stenosis is narrowing of the mitral valve orifice that obstructs normal blood flow from the left atrium to the left ventricle. The usual cause is rheumatic fever. Common complications are pulmonary hypertension, atrial fibrillation, and thromboembolism. Symptoms are those of heart failure; signs include an opening snap and a diastolic murmur. Diagnosis is by physical examination and echocardiography. Medical treatment includes diuretics, beta- blockers or rate-limiting calcium channel blockers, and anticoagulants. Effective treatment for more severe disease consists of balloon commissurotomy, surgical commissurotomy, or valve replacement. Prognosis is good. (See also Overview of Cardiac Valvular Disorders.) In mitral stenosis, mitral valve leaflets become thickened and immobile and the mitral orifice becomes narrowed due to fusion of the commissures and the presence of shortened, thickened, and matted chordae tendineae. The most common cause is: Rheumatic fever However, many patients do not recall having had rheumatic fever. In regions with high prevalence of rheumatic fever, patients often present by age 30 years, usually with commissural fusion of pliable, noncalcified leaflets. In regions with low prevalence, patients typically present between ages 50 and 70 years and with calcified fibrotic leaflets with subvalvular involvement in addition to commissural fusion. An prevalent cause in older patients is mitral annular calcification with extension of calcification into the leaflets, causing them to stiffen and not open fully. Women comprise 80% of rheumatic fever and mitral annular calcification cases (1). Occasionally, mitral stenosis is congenital or occurs after radiation therapy. If the valve cannot close completely, mitral regurgitation (MR) may coexist with mitral stenosis. Patients with mitral stenosis due to rheumatic fever may also have lesions of the aortic valve or tricuspid valve or both. Left atrial (LA) size and pressure increase progressively to compensate for mitral stenosis; pulmonary venous and capillary pressures also increase and may cause secondary pulmonary hypertension, leading to right ventricular (RV) heart failure, tricuspid regurgitation, and pulmonary regurgitation. Rate of progression varies. LA enlargement predisposes to atrial fibrillation, a risk factor for thromboembolism. The faster heart rate and loss of atrial contraction with onset of atrial fibrillation often lead to sudden worsening of symptoms. Symptoms and Signs of Mitral Stenosis Symptoms of mitral stenosis correlate poorly with disease severity because the disease often progresses slowly, and patients unconsciously reduce their activity. Many patients are asymptomatic until they become pregnant or atrial fibrillation develops. Initial symptoms are usually those of heart failure (eg,
