Mitral Stenosis
KEYWORDS: mitral, valve, patients, stenosis, mitral stenosis, pulmonary, atrial, left, symptoms, atrial fibrillation, fibrillation, commissurotomy, pulmonary hypertension, hypertension, diastolic


often progresses slowly, and patients unconsciously reduce their activity. Many patients are asymptomatic until they become pregnant or atrial fibrillation develops. Initial symptoms are usually those of heart failure (eg, exertional dyspnea, orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, fatigue). Symptoms typically may not appear until 15 or more years after an episode of rheumatic fever (1). In medically underserved regions, young children may become symptomatic because streptococcal infections are not treated with antibiotics, and recurrent infections are common. Paroxysmal or chronic atrial fibrillation further reduces blood flow into the left ventricle (LV), precipitating pulmonary edema and acute dyspnea when ventricular rate is poorly controlled. Atrial fibrillation may also cause palpitations. In patients with atrial fibrillation and mitral stenosis who are not taking anticoagulants, there is up to an approximately 5% annual risk of stroke; occasionally the initial symptoms and signs of mitral stenosis are those of an embolic event such as stroke (2). Less common symptoms include hemoptysis due to rupture of small pulmonary vessels and pulmonary edema, particularly during pregnancy when blood volume increases. Hoarseness due to compression of the left recurrent laryngeal nerve by a dilated LA or pulmonary artery is called Ortner syndrome. Symptoms of pulmonary hypertension and secondary RV failure (cor pulmonale) may also occur; the classic facial appearance in mitral stenosis, a plum-colored malar flush with a background of peripheral cyanosis, occurs only when cardiac output is low and pulmonary hypertension is severe; the cause is localized cutaneous vasodilation overlaid on more extensive peripheral vasoconstriction and chronic hypoxemia. In patients with dark skin, the malar flush may produce a darker shade of the patient's skin. Endocarditis is rare in mitral stenosis unless mitral regurgitation is also present. Palpation Palpable first and second heart sounds (S1 and S2) may be detected. S1 is best palpated at the apex, and S2 is best felt at the upper left sternal border. The pulmonic component of S2 (P2) is responsible for the impulse and results from pulmonary hypertension. An RV impulse (heave) palpable at the left sternal border may accompany jugular venous distention when pulmonary hypertension is present and RV diastolic dysfunction develops. Auscultation Loud S1 Early diastolic opening snap Low-pitched decrescendo-crescendo rumbling diastolic murmur Auscultatory findings in mitral stenosis include a loud S1 caused by the leaflets of a stenotic mitral valve closing abruptly (M1); it is heard best at the apex. S1 may be absent when the valve is
