Mitral Stenosis
KEYWORDS: mitral, valve, patients, stenosis, mitral stenosis, pulmonary, atrial, left, symptoms, atrial fibrillation, fibrillation, commissurotomy, pulmonary hypertension, hypertension, diastolic


Timing Increases through diastole does not increase up to S1 Augmenting factor Inspiration Exercise Cardiac apex with patient Lower right and left Site in left lateral decubitus parasternal borders position S1 = first heart sound. Diagnosis of Mitral Stenosis Echocardiography Diagnosis of mitral stenosis is suspected clinically and confirmed by echocardiography. Typically, 2- dimensional echocardiography shows abnormal valve and subvalvular structures. It also provides information about the degree of valvular calcification and stenosis and LA size. Doppler echocardiography provides information about the transvalvular gradient and pulmonary artery 2 pressure. The normal area of the mitral valve orifice is 4 to 5 cm . Severity of mitral stenosis is characterized echocardiographically as (1): 2 Moderate: Valve area > 1.5 to 2.5 cm or diastolic pressure half-time < 150 msec 2 Severe: Valve area ≤ 1.5 cm or diastolic pressure half-time ≥ 150 msec; symptoms are often present However, the relationship between the area of the valve orifice and symptoms is not always consistent. Color Doppler echocardiography detects associated mitral regurgitation. Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) can be used to detect or exclude small LA thrombi, especially those in the LA appendage, which usually cannot be seen transthoracically. TEE also can better assess mitral regurgitation when mitral calcification causes acoustic shadowing of the left atrium from the transthoracic window. Mitral Stenosis VIDEO An ECG and chest radiograph are usually obtained. The ECG may show LA enlargement, manifest as a P wave lasting > 0.12 msec with prominent negative deflection of its terminal component (duration: > 0.04 msec; amplitude: > 0.10 mV) in V1; broad, notched P waves in lead II; or both. Right axis QRS deviation and tall R waves in V1 suggest RV hypertrophy. Chest radiograph usually shows straightening of the left cardiac border due to a dilated LA appendage, and widening of the carina. With barium in the esophagus, the lateral chest radiograph will show the dilated LA displacing the esophagus posteriorly. The main pulmonary artery (trunk) may be prominent; the descending right pulmonary artery diameter is ≥ 16 mm if pulmonary hypertension is significant. The upper lobe pulmonary veins may be dilated. A double shadow of an enlarged LA may be seen along 6/10 the right cardiac border. Horizontal lines in the lower posterior lung fields (Kerley B lines) indicate interstitial edema associated with high LA pressure. Exercise testing helps quantify symptoms. Further information can be obtained from stress echocardiography evaluation
