Mitral Stenosis
KEYWORDS: mitral, valve, patients, stenosis, mitral stenosis, pulmonary, atrial, left, symptoms, atrial fibrillation, fibrillation, commissurotomy, pulmonary hypertension, hypertension, diastolic


cardiac surgery is required for other indications. Intervention is indicated for severe mitral stenosis when any symptoms are present if the valve is suitable for percutaneous balloon commissurotomy (may be considered in asymptomatic patients if pulmonary pressure is > 50 mm Hg or there is new-onset atrial fibrillation). Cardiac surgery is pursued only when symptoms are severe and for patients who are not candidates for percutaneous balloon commissurotomy, require other cardiac operations, or do not have access to the percutaneous procedure (1). Choice of intervention Percutaneous mitral balloon commissurotomy is the procedure of choice for younger patients and for patients without heavily calcified valve commissures, subvalvular distortion, LA thrombi, or moderate or severe MR (see Table Grading of Mitral Regurgitation —1). In this fluoroscopic- and echocardiographic-guided procedure, a transvenous catheter with an inflatable distal balloon is passed transseptally from the right atrium to the LA and inflated to separate fused mitral valve commissures. Outcomes are equivalent to those of more invasive procedures. Complications are uncommon but include MR, embolism, and tamponade. More than three-quarters of the atrial septal defects from the procedure close spontaneously; most of the remaining atrial septal defects cause only clinically trivial left to right shunts, but percutaneous closure is occasionally necessary (2). Surgical commissurotomy may be used in patients with severe subvalvular disease, valvular calcification, or LA thrombi. In this procedure, fused mitral valve leaflets are separated using a dilator passed through the left ventricle (closed commissurotomy) via a thoracotomy, or by direct vision (open commissurotomy) via a sternotomy. Choice of procedure is based on the surgeon’s experience and the morphology of the valve, although closed commissurotomy is performed less frequently. Because of its greater risks, surgery is usually deferred until symptoms reach New York Heart Association class III (see table Classification of Heart Failure). During surgery, some clinicians ligate the left atrial appendage to reduce risk of thromboembolism. Valve replacement is confined to patients with severe morphologic changes that make the valve unsuitable for balloon or surgical commissurotomy. Lifelong anticoagulation with warfarin is required in patients with a mechanical valve to prevent thromboembolism. A mitral bioprosthetic valve requires anticoagulation with warfarin for 3 to 6 months postoperatively. Direct oral anticoagulants (DOAC) can 8/10 be considered in patients with atrial fibrillation and a bioprosthetic valve (see also Anticoagulation for patients with a prosthetic cardiac valve or native valve disease). When the etiology is annular calcification, there
