Mitral Stenosis
KEYWORDS: mitral, valve, patients, stenosis, mitral stenosis, pulmonary, atrial, left, symptoms, atrial fibrillation, fibrillation, commissurotomy, pulmonary hypertension, hypertension, diastolic


in patients with atrial fibrillation and a bioprosthetic valve (see also Anticoagulation for patients with a prosthetic cardiac valve or native valve disease). When the etiology is annular calcification, there is no benefit from percutaneous balloon commissurotomy because there is no commissural fusion. Furthermore, surgical valve replacement is technically demanding because of the annular calcification and often high risk because many patients are older and have comorbidities. Therefore, intervention is delayed until symptoms become severe despite use of diuretic and rate control medications. Patients who are not candidates for surgery may benefit from implantation of a transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) bioprosthesis in the mitral position. Prognosis for Mitral Stenosis The natural history of mitral stenosis varies, but the interval between onset of symptoms and severe disability is, on average, approximately 9 years (1). Outcome is affected by the patient’s preprocedural age and functional status, presence of pulmonary hypertension, and degree of mitral regurgitation. Symptomatic results of balloon or surgical commissurotomy are equivalent in patients with valves that are not calcified. However, after a variable period of time, function deteriorates in most patients due to restenosis, and valve replacement may become necessary. Risk factors for death are atrial fibrillation and pulmonary hypertension. Cause of death is most commonly heart failure or pulmonary or cerebrovascular embolism. Key Points Mitral stenosis is usually caused by rheumatic fever, although calcific degeneration is increasingly observed in older patients. Pulmonary hypertension and atrial fibrillation may develop. The risk of thromboembolism in patients with atrial fibrillation and mitral stenosis is very high and is treated with a vitamin K antagonist, not a non-vitamin K oral anticoagulant. Heart sounds include a loud first heart sound and an early diastolic opening snap followed by a low-pitched decrescendo-crescendo rumbling diastolic murmur, heard best at the apex at end-expiration when the patient is in the left lateral decubitus position; the murmur increases after a Valsalva maneuver, exercise, squatting, and isometric handgrip. Mildly symptomatic patients usually respond to diuretics and, if sinus tachycardia or atrial fibrillation is present, to beta-blockers or calcium channel blockers for rate control. Severely symptomatic patients and those with evidence of pulmonary hypertension require commissurotomy or valve replacement.
