Overview of Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, pubmed, patients, primary, blood, pressure, aldosterone, syndrome, blood pressure, endocrinol, clin, adrenal, aldosteronism, free, endocrine


ABSTRACT Endocrine hypertension typically is referred to disorders of the adrenal gland including primary aldosteronism, glucocorticoid excess, and the pheochromocytoma-paraganglioma syndromes. Rare conditions in patients with congenital adrenal hyperplasia and glucocorticoid resistance (Chrousos syndrome) can also lead to hypertension. Nonadrenal endocrine disorders, such as growth hormone excess or deficiency, thyroid dysfunction, primary hyperparathyroidism, testosterone deficiency, vitamin D deficiency, obesity-associated hypertension, insulin resistance and metabolic syndrome are also linked to hypertension. In this chapter, we provide an overview of endocrine hypertension including rare syndromes of mineralocorticoid excess. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Hypertension is the most common diagnosis in USA as it affects approximately 31% of Americans ( 1 , 2 ) and approx. 33% of the Mozambican population using a blood pressure cutoff of 139/89 mm Hg ( 3 ). The assignment of a diagnosis of hypertension is dependent on the appropriate measurement of blood pressure, the level of blood pressure (BP) elevation, and the duration of follow-up ( 4 ). The secondary causes of hypertension include mostly renal as well as endocrine diseases. An accurate diagnosis of endocrine hypertension offers clinicians the chance to achieve an optimal treatment with either specific pharmacologic or surgical therapy ( 5 ). Herein, the different causes of endocrine hypertension with a focus on prevalence, clinical presentation, and currently diagnostic tools. How to Measure BP Manual measurement using a mercury sphygmomanometer and a stethoscope remains the Gold Standard. However due to environmental issues regarding mercury, this technique tends to be abandoned. Automatic devices have substituted them, but a standardized procedure of obtaining comparable measurements is poor and their validity in clinical practice is limited ( 6 ). The device should have an upper arm cuff and should be properly validated and calibrated. A correct cuff size that encircles 75%–100% of the arm should be used. Blood pressure assessment should be based on the mean of 2 or more properly measured seated BP readings on each of 2 or more office visits. Optimally, the measurement of the blood pressure can take place in the office, with the patient seated comfortably with legs uncrossed or in supine position for 3–5 minutes without talking or moving around. It is recommended to avoid caffeine, smoking as well as exercise before the measurement. Clothes covering the cuff location of the upper arm should be removed (
