Overview of Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, pubmed, patients, primary, blood, pressure, aldosterone, syndrome, blood pressure, endocrinol, clin, adrenal, aldosteronism, free, endocrine


depend on different classification systems used. Hypertension affects 28.6% of adults in United States Data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 2011-2012 showed an increase in the prevalence of hypertension in all age groups compared to 1991 ( 11 ). Among adults with hypertension in that survey, 52% achieved a BP of less than 140/90 mm Hg with 76% taking antihypertensives, and with 83% being aware of their hypertension. The prevalence of hypertension increases with age and most individuals with hypertension are diagnosed with primary (essential) hypertension. Hypertension is a major risk factor for stroke, ischemic heart disease, and cardiac failure. It is the second most common reason for office visits to physicians in the United States. Analysis of the Framingham study data suggested that individuals from age 40 to 69 years have an increasing risk of stroke or coronary artery disease mortality with every 20 mm Hg increment in SBP. Prevalence of Secondary Hypertension In most people, hypertension is primary, but approximately 15-30% of hypertensive population has secondary hypertension ( 12 ). Among children presenting with hypertension, 50% have a secondary cause ( 13 ). Young adults (<40 years old), are reported to have a prevalence of secondary hypertension 30% ( 14 ). The secondary causes of hypertension include primarily causes such as primary renal disease, oral contraceptive use, sleep apnea syndrome, congenital or acquired cardiovascular disease (i.e. coarctation of the aorta) and excess hormonal secretion. Endocrine Hypertension was previously reported to account for approx. Recent studies suggest an overall prevalence of >5% and possibly > 10% for endocrine hypertension among the hypertensive population ( 15 , 16 ), but several authors have suggested that this prevalence is probably underestimated. The most common causes of endocrine hypertension are excess production of mineralocorticoids (i.e. primary hyperaldosteronism), catecholamines (pheochromocytoma), thyroid hormone, and glucocorticoids (Cushing syndrome) ( 17 ). Table 1 lists the most common causes of Secondary hypertension. Table 1. Etiology of Secondary Hypertension View in own window Endocrine Causes Other Causes Adrenal-dependent causes Renal causes (2.5-6%) Pheochromocytoma and sympathetic paraganglioma Polycystic kidney disease Primary aldosteronism Chronic kidney disease Hyperdeoxycorticosteronism Urinary tract obstruction Congenital adrenal hyperplasia Renin-producing tumor 11β-Hydroxylase deficiency Liddle syndrome 17α-Hydroxylase deficiency Renovascular causes Deoxycorticosterone-producing tumor renal artery stenosis fibromuscular dysplasia or atherosclerosis Chrousos syndrome Vascular causes Cushing syndrome Coarctation of aorta Apparent mineralocorticoid excess/11β- hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase deficiency Vasculitis Parathyroid-dependent causes Collagen vascular disease Hyperparathyroidism Neurogenic causes
