Overview of Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, pubmed, patients, primary, blood, pressure, aldosterone, syndrome, blood pressure, endocrinol, clin, adrenal, aldosteronism, free, endocrine


artery stenosis fibromuscular dysplasia or atherosclerosis Chrousos syndrome Vascular causes Cushing syndrome Coarctation of aorta Apparent mineralocorticoid excess/11β- hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase deficiency Vasculitis Parathyroid-dependent causes Collagen vascular disease Hyperparathyroidism Neurogenic causes Pituitary-dependent causes Brain tumor Acromegaly Autonomic dysfunction Cushing disease Sleep apnea Secondary hyperaldosteronism Intracranial hypertension Renovascular hypertension Drugs and toxins Thyroid-dependent causes Alcohol Hypothyroidism Cocaine Hyperthyroidism Cyclosporine, tacrolimus Vitamin D deficiency NSAIDs Erythropoietin Adrenergic medications Decongestants containing ephedrine Herbal remedies containing licorice or ephedrine Nicotine Prevalence of Resistant Hypertension and Typical Causes The prevalence of resistant hypertension is high: 53% of patients in NHANES had a BP < 140/90 mm Hg vs. 48% in the Framingham Heart Study. In NHANES participants with chronic kidney disease, 37% had a BP < 130/80 mm Hg. In ALLHAT, 34% of patients remained uncontrolled after 5-year follow-up on at least 2 antihypertensive drugs ( 5 ). One important question in this regard is when to screen for secondary causes. Some patients with hypertension, but without primary aldosteronism, demonstrate ACTH-dependent aldosterone hypersecretion by stress ( 18 ). The clinician should carefully screen for cardinal signs and symptoms of Cushing syndrome, hyper- or hypothyroidism, acromegaly, insulin resistance (acanthosis nigricans), or pheochromocytoma (flushing and excessive sweating). Hypertension in young patients and refractory hypertension (characterized by poorly controlled blood pressure on > 3 antihypertensive drugs) should alert the physician to screen for secondary causes ( 14 ). The importance of endocrine-mediated hypertension resides in the fact that in most cases, the cause is clear and can be traced to the actions of a hormone, often produced in excess by a tumor, such as an aldosteronoma, in a patient with hypertension due to primary aldosteronism. More importantly, once the diagnosis is made, a disease-specific targeted antihypertensive therapy can be implemented, and, in some cases, surgical intervention may result in complete cure, obviating the need for life-long antihypertensive treatment. As in other causes of hypertension, the clinician should question the patient about dietary habits (salt intake etc.), weight fluctuations, use of over the counter drugs and health supplements including teas and herbal preparations, recreational drugs, and oral contraceptives. Moreover, a detailed family history may provide valuable insights into familial forms of endocrine hypertension. The review of systems should include disease-specific questions. Many patients harboring a pheochromocytoma are symptomatic. Symptoms may include headaches, palpitations, anxiety-like attacks and profuse sweating, similar to symptoms of hyperthyroidism. The triad headache, palpitations, and sweating in
