Overview of Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, pubmed, patients, primary, blood, pressure, aldosterone, syndrome, blood pressure, endocrinol, clin, adrenal, aldosteronism, free, endocrine


questions. Many patients harboring a pheochromocytoma are symptomatic. Symptoms may include headaches, palpitations, anxiety-like attacks and profuse sweating, similar to symptoms of hyperthyroidism. The triad headache, palpitations, and sweating in a hypertensive patient was initially found to have a sensitivity of 91% and specificity of 94% for pheochromocytoma ( 19 ). More recent studies suggest that this typical triad of symptoms is found much less frequently, for instance, in only 10% of cases ( 20 ). Ten or more percent of patients with pheochromocytoma may not have any clinical symptoms and may be normotensive ( 19 , 21 , 22 ). Patients with Cushing’s syndrome often complain of weight gain, insomnia, depression, easy bruising and fatigue. Acne and hirsutism (in women) can also be observed. The challenge these days is to recognize patients with evolving Cushing’s syndrome amongst the many obese and often poorly controlled diabetic individuals. An Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guideline can assist in this task ( 23 ). Primary hyperaldosteronism is manifested by mild to severe hypertension. Hypokalemia can be present, but it is not a universal finding and there is normokalemic and normotensive primary aldosteronism ( 24 , 25 ). Polyuria, myopathy and cardiac dysrhythmias may occur in cases of severe hypokalemia. A thorough physical exam with attention to evidence of target organ injury and features of secondary hypertension should be conducted. Low renin is often associated with several causes of hypertension. Figure 2 lists conditions with low renin levels. Figure 2. Low Renin Conditions Despite the increasing understanding of the pathophysiology of hypertension, control of the disease is often difficult and far from optimal. Recent large meta-analyses and genotype studies have identified some “risk genes” for hypertension ( 15 ). Surendran and colleagues found a low frequency nonsense variant in the gene ENPEP, which codes for the enzyme aminopeptidase A that converts angiotensin II into angiotensin III and therefore being part of the regulation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system ( 26 ). Liu and colleagues observed associations for the aggregation of rare and low frequency missense variants in the genes NPR1, DBH, and PTPMT1 ( 27 ). The gene DBH codes for the enzyme dopamine beta-hydroxylase, which catalyzes the conversion of dopamine into noradrenaline and, thereby, influences the autonomic nervous system. The gene PTPMT1 codes for the mitochondrial protein tyrosine phosphatase 1, which influences insulin production ( 27 ). CLINICAL DIAGNOSIS OF ENDOCRINE HYPERTENSION The first
