Overview of Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, pubmed, patients, primary, blood, pressure, aldosterone, syndrome, blood pressure, endocrinol, clin, adrenal, aldosteronism, free, endocrine


influences the autonomic nervous system. The gene PTPMT1 codes for the mitochondrial protein tyrosine phosphatase 1, which influences insulin production ( 27 ). CLINICAL DIAGNOSIS OF ENDOCRINE HYPERTENSION The first step when evaluating a patient with suspected endocrine-related hypertension is to exclude other causes of secondary hypertension, particularly renal disorders. A detailed medical history and review of systems should be obtained. The onset of hypertension and the response to previous anti-hypertensive treatment should be determined. Consideration of adherence to prescribed antihypertensive regimen should be given. A history of target organ damage (i.e. retinopathy, nephropathy, claudication, heart disease, abdominal or carotid artery disease) and the overall cardiovascular risk status should also be explored in detail ( 28 ). The prevalence of resistant hypertension is high: 53% of patients in NHANES had a BP < 140/90 mm Hg vs. 48% in the Framingham Heart Study. In NHANES participants with chronic kidney disease, 37% had a BP < 130/80 mm Hg. In ALLHAT, 34% of patients remained uncontrolled after 5-year follow-up on at least 2 antihypertensive drugs ( 16 ). Table 2 presents clinical history, physical exam findings, and routine labs that suggest specific endocrine causes of hypertension. Table 2: Endocrine Causes of Hypertension. Clinical Presentation. Diagnostic Tools View in own window Etiology Clinical presentation Diagnostic tools Adrenal-dependent causes Pheochromocytoma and sympathetic paraganglioma Headaches, palpitations, anxiety-like attacks, and profuse sweating Free plasma or fractionated urinary metanephrines Primary aldosteronism Polyuria, myopathy, and cardiac dysrhythmias may occur in cases of severe hypokalemia Increased Aldosterone/Renin Ratio. Suppressed PRA, Increased aldosterone. Low potassium. Congenital adrenal hyperplasia 11β-Hydroxylase deficiency Androgen production is increased and may lead to prenatal virilization with resulting pseudohermaphroditism in females. Males may develop pseudoprecocious puberty, short stature, and sometimes prepubertal gynecomastia Increased 17 OH PRG, DOC, 11-deoxycortisol, androstenedione , testosterone , and DHEA-S Germline mutation testing 17α-Hydroxylase deficiency Pseudohermaphroditism in XY males, and sexual infantilism and primary amenorrhea in females Low/low normal blood levels of androstenedione, testosterone, DHEA-S, 17-hydroxyprogesterone , aldosterone, and cortisol Germline mutation testing Deoxycorticosterone-producing tumor Hypertension, adrenal tumors usually large and malignant. Women may present virilization and men feminization. Low renin and low/normal aldosterone. Increased DOC Chrousos syndrome Children may present with ambiguous genitalia and precocious puberty. In women, hirsutism and oligo-amenorrhea. Men may be infertile and/or oligospermic. No features of Cushing’s syndrome. Hypertension. Hypokalemic alkalosis Increased DOC, cortisol, ACTH. Increased adrenal androgen secretion. Liddle syndrome Hypertension and spontaneous hypokalemia Low
