Overview of Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, pubmed, patients, primary, blood, pressure, aldosterone, syndrome, blood pressure, endocrinol, clin, adrenal, aldosteronism, free, endocrine


oligo-amenorrhea. Men may be infertile and/or oligospermic. No features of Cushing’s syndrome. Hypertension. Hypokalemic alkalosis Increased DOC, cortisol, ACTH. Increased adrenal androgen secretion. Liddle syndrome Hypertension and spontaneous hypokalemia Low potassium and low levels of aldosterone and renin Cushing syndrome Weight gain, insomnia, depression, easy bruising, fatigue, acne, hirsutism, hyperglycemia 24-h urinary free cortisol excretion on at least 2 occasions. Suppressed ACTH 1mg overnight dexamethasone suppression test Apparent mineralocorticoid excess/11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase deficiency Congenital: Growth retardation/short stature, hypertension, hypokalemia, diabetes insipidus renalis, and nephrocalcinosis polyuria and polydipsia . Acquired form is attributed to licorice root ingestion and presents with hypertension and hypokalemia Hypokalemia, metabolic alkalosis , low renin, low aldosterone, normal plasma cortisol levels Abnormal urinary cortisol-cortisone metabolite profile Parathyroid-dependent causes Hyperparathyroidism Hypercalcemia, hypercalciuria, nephrocalcinosis, cortical bone loss, proximal myopathy, weakness and easy fatigability, depression, inability to concentrate PTH intact, increased serum calcium concentration Pituitary-dependent causes Acromegaly Enlargement of the lower lip and nose, prognathism, mild hirsutism (in women), sweating, oily skin, diabetes mellitus, acanthosis nigricans IGF-1 Cushing's disease Weight gain, insomnia, depression, easy bruising, fatigue, acne, hirsutism, hyperglycemia 24-h urinary free cortisol excretion on at least 2 occasions High normal/increased plasma ACTH 1mg overnight dexamethasone suppression test MRI pituitary Thyroid-dependent causes Hypothyroidism Fatigue, weight gain, bradycardia, loss of appetite Increased TSH Low FT3, FT4 Hyperthyroidism Nervousness, anxiety, palpitations, hyperactivity, weight loss, tachycardia Low TSH Increased FT3, FT4 PRIMARY ALDOSTERONISM Prevalence of Primary Aldosteronism In a community-based study (Framingham Offspring) comprising 1688 non-hypertensive participants, increased plasma aldosterone concentrations within the physiologic range predisposed persons to the development of hypertension ( 29 ). Previous studies have reported a prevalence of primary aldosteronism (PA) of 1-2%. Newer data suggest an overall prevalence of >5% and possibly > 10% among the hypertensive population ( 15 , 16 ). In patients with mild to moderate hypertension without hypokalemia, the prevalence of PA has been reported to be 3% ( 30 ). In patients with resistant hypertension, the prevalence ranges between 17 and 23% ( 31 ). In a study involving 1616 patients with resistant hypertension, 21% (338 pts) had an Aldosterone/Renin Ratio of > 65 with concomitant plasma aldosterone concentrations of > 416 pmol/L (15 ng) ( 25 ). After salt suppression testing, only 11% (182 pts) of these patients had primary aldosteronism ( 25 ). In patients with adrenal incidentaloma and hypertension, the prevalence of aldosteronism is low at 2% ( 31 ). Many
