Overview of Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, pubmed, patients, primary, blood, pressure, aldosterone, syndrome, blood pressure, endocrinol, clin, adrenal, aldosteronism, free, endocrine


(182 pts) of these patients had primary aldosteronism ( 25 ). In patients with adrenal incidentaloma and hypertension, the prevalence of aldosteronism is low at 2% ( 31 ). Many (up to 63%) patients with PA may not present with hypokalemia but are rather normokalemic ( 31 , 32 ). Low renin hypertension is not always easy to differentiate from PA ( 33 ). Born-Frontsberg and colleagues found that 56% of 553 patients with primary aldosteronism had hypokalemia and 16% had cardio-and cerebrovascular comorbidities ( 32 ). In addition to the patient group with resistant hypertension, screening for primary aldosteronism is recommended for those patients with diuretic-induced or spontaneous hypokalemia, those with hypertension and a family history of early-onset hypertension or cerebrovascular accident at young age, and those with hypertension and an adrenal incidentaloma ( 27 , 34 ). Etiology of Primary Aldosteronism PA can be a sporadic or familial condition. Many cases of sporadic PA are caused by an aldosterone-producing adrenal adenoma. However, bilateral zona glomerulosa hyperplasia is much more common in apparently sporadic primary hyperaldosteronism than previously thought and is an important differential diagnosis, since it is treated medically with aldosterone antagonists, rather than by adrenalectomy ( 35 ). Selective use of adrenal venous sampling is helpful in this setting ( 36 , 37 ). Very rarely, PA can be caused by an adrenal carcinoma, or unilateral adrenal cortex hyperplasia (also called primary adrenal hyperplasia) ( 36 ). Familial aldosteronism is estimated to affect 2% of all patients with primary hyperaldosteronism and is classified as type 1, type 2, type 3, and type 4 ( 38 - 40 ). Patients with familial aldosteronism type 3 produce amounts of 18-OHF and 18-oxoF 10-1,000 times higher than patients with familial aldosteronism type 1 (approx. 20 times normal) or patients with familial aldosteronism type 2 or sporadic aldosteronism ( 41 ). Patients with familial aldosteronism type 3 have a paradoxical rise of aldosterone after dexamethasone, atrophy of the zona glomerulosa, diffuse hyperplasia of the zona fasciculata, and severe hypertension in early childhood (around age 7 years) that is resistant to drug therapy but curable by bilateral adrenalectomy ( 42 ). In familial hyperaldosteronism type 1, an autosomal dominantly inherited chimeric gene defect in CYP11B1/CYPB2 (coding for 11beta-hydroxylase/aldosterone synthase) causes ectopic expression of aldosterone synthase activity in the cortisol-producing zona fasciculata, making mineralocorticoid production regulated by corticotropin ( 24 , 43 ).
