Overview of Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, pubmed, patients, primary, blood, pressure, aldosterone, syndrome, blood pressure, endocrinol, clin, adrenal, aldosteronism, free, endocrine


PRA is complicated and includes generating angiotensin from endogenous angiotensinogen. Quantification of renin’s conversion of angiotensinogen to angiotensin is performed utilizing radioimmunoassays for PRA, which are not standardized among laboratories. Measuring plasma renin molecules directly by an automated chemiluminescence immunoassay as direct renin concentration also is feasible. A PA/PRA-ratio > 30 with a concomitant PA > 20 ng/dl has a sensitivity of 90% and specificity of 91% for primary aldosteronism. Because low renin hypertension can be difficult to distinguish from PA, an upright plasma aldosterone of at least 15 ng/dl may be helpful ( 30 ). As hypokalemia can reduce aldosterone secretion, it should be corrected before further diagnostic work-up. Also, if a patient with hypertension treated with an ACE inhibitor or ARB, calcium channel blocker, and a diuretic (all of which should increase PRA, thereby lower the PA/PRA-ratio or ARR), still has a suppressed renin and 2-digit plasma aldosterone level, primary aldosteronism is likely. False-positive ARRs may occur in premenopausal women during the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle as well as in those who are on medication with estrogen-containing contraceptive agents ( 14 ). Because of medication interference, it is commonly recommended to withdraw betablockers, ACE inhibitors, ARBs (angiotensin receptor blockers), renin inhibitors, dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, and central alpha 2-agonists approx. 2 weeks before PA/PRA-ratio or ARR testing, and to hold spironolactone, eplerenone, amiloride, and triamterene, and loop diuretics approx. 4 weeks before ARR testing. Licorice root products should also be withheld 4 weeks prior to testing ( 49 ). Confirmatory testing can be done by different techniques ( 31 , 50 ) [ Table 4 ( 50 )]. A study including 148 hypertensive patients found that a new overnight diagnostic test using pharmaceutical renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system blockade with dexamethasone, captopril and valsartan, has low cost, is rapid, safe and easy to perform with an estimated sensitivity of 98% and specificity of 100% ( 51 ). To clinically distinguish hyperplasia from unilateral adenoma, imaging with computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging are helpful. Table 4. Confirmatory Tests ( 50 ) View in own window Confirmation Method Protocol Interpretation of Results Oral Salt Suppression Test ·Increase sodium intake for 3-4 days via supplemental tablets or dietary sodium to >200 mmol/day · Monitor blood pressure · Provide potassium supplementation to ensure normal serum levels · Measure 24h urinary aldosterone excretion and urinary sodium on 3 rd or
