Overview of Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, pubmed, patients, primary, blood, pressure, aldosterone, syndrome, blood pressure, endocrinol, clin, adrenal, aldosteronism, free, endocrine


Measure plasma renin and serum aldosterone at time=0h and time=4h · PA confirmed: 4h aldosterone level > 10 ng/dL · PA unlikely: 4h aldosterone level < 5 ng/dL Localization Despite imaging studies, adrenal venous sampling (AVS) with cosyntropin (ACTH) infusion is often essential if the patient desires surgery in case of a unilateral adenoma: cutoff for unilateral adenoma > 4 “cortisol-corrected” aldosterone ratio (adenoma side aldosterone/cortisol: normal adrenal gland aldosterone/cortisol); cutoff for bilateral hyperplasia < 3 “cortisol-corrected” aldosterone ratio (high-side aldosterone/cortisol: low-side aldosterone/cortisol) ( 36 , 52 ). Medical Treatment The 2016 Endocrine Society clinical practice guideline for the management of primary aldosteronism suggests that patients with hypertension, spontaneous hypokalemia, undetectable renin, and a plasma aldosterone concentration above 20 ng/dl (550 pmol/L) may not need to undergo further confirmatory testing but instead proceed with further imaging and/or adrenal vein sampling or (if unable or unwilling to undergo surgery/adrenalectomy) treatment with a mineralocorticoid antagonist ( 36 ). Bilateral adrenal hyperplasia is treated with spironolactone, eplerenone, and/or amiloride ( 50 ). Spironolactone is a nonselective, competitive mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist and is generally considered first-line therapy for patients with BAH at doses ranging between 12.5-400 mg/d (usually 12.5-50 mg/d). It also acts as antagonist of the androgen receptor, a weak antagonist of the glucocorticoid receptor, and an agonist of the progesterone receptor. These actions are associated with adverse effects, including hyperkalemia, hyponatremia, gynecomastia, menstrual disturbances and breast tenderness and decreased libido in women, and gynecomastia in men, occurring in a dose-dependent manner. Eplerenone, is a more expensive but selective mineralocorticoid receptor blocker with fewer antiandrogenic effects, but also with lower affinity for the mineralocorticoid receptor and less effectiveness than spironolactone with respect to BP lowering in patients with moderate hypertension ( 53 ); Generally, higher doses of eplerenone are prescribed for similar effects as spironolactone (usually 25-50 mg twice daily) ( 50 ). Currently under investigation are aldosterone synthase inhibitors, which may not have any nongenomic/non-mineralocorticoid receptor-mediated adverse effects ( 54 ). In cases of familial hyperaldosteronism type 1, dexamethasone is effective in suppressing ACTH and, hence, aldosterone overproduction ( 55 ). Surgical Treatment Adrenal adenomas producing aldosterone should be removed. Nearly all patients with such endocrine hypertension have improved blood pressure control and up to 60% are cured (normotensive without antihypertensive therapy) from hypertension ( 56 – 59 ). This outcome is influenced by various factors including age, duration of hypertension, coexistence
