Overview of Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, pubmed, patients, primary, blood, pressure, aldosterone, syndrome, blood pressure, endocrinol, clin, adrenal, aldosteronism, free, endocrine


and up to 60% are cured (normotensive without antihypertensive therapy) from hypertension ( 56 – 59 ). This outcome is influenced by various factors including age, duration of hypertension, coexistence of renal insufficiency, use of more than 2 antihypertensive drugs preoperatively, family history of hypertension, and others. Parameters of insulin sensitivity can be restored to normal with treatment of PA ( 60 ). A cross-sectional study including 460 pts with primary aldosteronism and 1363 controls with essential hypertension found no significant difference between pre- and postoperative levels of fasting plasma glucose and serum lipids ( 61 ). This topic has been extensively reviewed from a pro and contra perspective. If a patient does not desire surgery/adrenalectomy for a unilateral aldosteronoma/hyperplasia ( Figure 3 ), medical therapy should be initiated ( 54 ). AVS and CT/MRI of the adrenal glands show a unilateral abnormality in 60.5% and 56%, respectively, but were congruent on the involved side in the same patient in only 37% in a recent systematic review ( 62 ). If a patient is older than age 40 years, the risk for an adrenal incidentaloma increases ( 62 ). Unilateral adrenalectomy can be helpful in some patients with primary aldosteronism and bilateral adrenal hyperplasia ( 56 ). Figure 3. Conn adenoma. Appearance of a 1 cm right-sided adrenal nodule (arrow) on contrast-enhanced computed tomography in a middle-aged man with hypertension treated for 20 years, initially only with a betablocker before becoming medically refractory and hypokalemic with inappropriate kaliuresis. After laparoscopic right adrenalectomy, the patient required only one antihypertensive drug to control his blood pressure. PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA (PPGLS) Prevalence Pheochromocytomas are rare neoplasms, with an estimated occurrence of approximately 0.2 percent of patients with hypertension. It has been reported that the annual incidence of pheochromocytoma is nearly 0.8 per 100,000 person-years ( 63 ). Pheochromocytomas may occur at any age, however they are commonly presented in the fourth to fifth decade ( 64 ) . Etiology Pheochromocytoma and paragangliomas (PPGLs) rare neuroendocrine tumors are composed of chromaffin tissue containing neurosecretory granules ( 65 ). Most pheochromocytomas are sporadic but as of known today, approx. 40% of patients with pheochromocytoma or paraganglioma irrespective of age at onset and family history harbor a germline mutation ( 66 , 67 ). At present, there are 10 currently clinically relevant syndromes known: multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2, von Hippel-Lindau syndrome, neurofibromatosis type 1, paraganglioma syndromes 1
