Overview of Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, pubmed, patients, primary, blood, pressure, aldosterone, syndrome, blood pressure, endocrinol, clin, adrenal, aldosteronism, free, endocrine


mutation ( 66 , 67 ). At present, there are 10 currently clinically relevant syndromes known: multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2, von Hippel-Lindau syndrome, neurofibromatosis type 1, paraganglioma syndromes 1 through 5, caused by mutations of the succinate dehydrogenase genes SDHD (syndrome 1), SDHAF2 (syndrome 2), SDHC (syndrome 3), SDHB (syndrome 4), and SDHA (syndrome 5), and the hereditary pheochromocytoma syndromes resulting from germline mutations in the genes coding transmembrane protein 127 (TMEM127) and MYC-associated factor X (MAX). Further susceptibility genes include EGLN1 (PHD2), EGLN2 (PHD1), DNMT3A, IDH1, FH, MDH2, SLC25A11, KIF1B, and HIF2A ( 68 – 70 ). There is controversy when genetic testing should be obtained in patients with pheochromocytoma, especially considering cost effectiveness. Clinical Features The clinical presentation of patients with PPGLs shows a wide variety from no or minor symptoms, to dramatic life-threatening manifestations. Asymptomatic patients present mostly incidentally discovered adrenal masses. Normotensive patients may also have sporadic pheochromocytomas ( 71 ). It appears that approx. 15% of patients with pheochromocytoma are normotensive ( 19 , 21 ). The classic triad of pounding headache, profuse sweating, and palpitations occurs sporadically with a duration from several minutes to 1 hour. Paroxysmal hypertension occurs commonly in 35-50% of patients. The patients show a complete relief of symptoms between episodes. The high BP surges and the other symptoms are associated with the underlying tumoral catecholamine release, which is the major cause for the high prevalence of cardiovascular emergencies, such as myocardial infarction, stroke, and heart failure. Pheochromocytoma (PHEO) and PPGLs may be the prevalent cause of acute Takotsubo-like catecholamine cardiomyopathy (TLC) ( 72 – 75 ). This association has been reported in in up to 3% of patients with secreting PPGL. The real prevalence of PPGL in TTC remains to be determined. The biochemical profile of pheochromocytomas associated with the a fore-mentioned hereditary syndromes varies ( 76 ). Patients with MEN 2 and VHL syndrome may have clinically “silent” pheochromocytomas. Blood pressure does not correlate with circulating catecholamines in patients with pheochromocytoma. Sipple syndrome for multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 first described by Max Schottelius and Felix Fraenkel in 1886 ( 77 ). Diagnosis – Screening The diagnosis can be established by measuring free plasma or fractionated urinary metanephrines (metanephrine and normetanephrine) ( 22 ). When plasma free metanephrines cannot be measured by HPLC with electrochemical detection or high-throughput automated liquid–chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), measuring plasma free metanephrines by
