Overview of Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, pubmed, patients, primary, blood, pressure, aldosterone, syndrome, blood pressure, endocrinol, clin, adrenal, aldosteronism, free, endocrine


(metanephrine and normetanephrine) ( 22 ). When plasma free metanephrines cannot be measured by HPLC with electrochemical detection or high-throughput automated liquid–chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), measuring plasma free metanephrines by RIA or measuring plasma chromogranin A may represent good markers for pheochromocytoma. In rare circumstances, pheochromocytomas release large O-methylated dopamine metabolite methoxytyramine, which can be elevated in extra-adrenal tumor location (in particular, neck and skull-base paragangliomas) and the presence of metastatic disease ( 78 ). In patients with renal failure, plasma concentrations of free metanephrines can be increased several folds ( 79 ). For optimal diagnostic accuracy, established reference values for plasma free and 24-hour urinary fractionated metanephrines should be obtained, according to age and sex. The upper cutoff level of plasma free normetanephrine, but not for metanephrine or methoxytyramine is higher in older patients ( 80 ). Several medications can cause false-positive biochemical testing . Thus, plasma normetanephrine levels may increase in patients treated with tricyclic antidepressants, antipsychotics, buspirone, MAO inhibitors, sympathomimetics, cocaine, levodopa, phenoxybenzamine, acetaminophen, alpha- methyldopa, and sulphasalazine. Plasma metanephrine levels may increase in patients treated with buspirone, MAO inhibitors, sympathomimetics, cocaine, and levodopa. Urine normetanephrine levels may be higher in patients receiving all the above-mentioned substances, as well as labetalol and sotalol. Urine normetanephrine levels may be increased by buspirone, MAO inhibitors, sympathomimetics, cocaine, levodopa, labetalol and sotalol ( 14 ). People who eat biogenic amines may have false-positive urinary metanephrine results. However, for measuring plasma free metanephrines and the O -methylated dopamine metabolite methoxytyramine, no specific dietary requirements are needed, but fasting state ( 14 , 81 ). The 2014 Endocrine Society clinical practice guideline recommends that all patients with pheochromocytoma-paraganglioma should be engaged in shared decision making for genetic testing ( 22 ). All patients with paraganglioma should undergo testing for succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) mutations and those patients with metastatic disease should be tested for SDHB mutations. Recognizing the distinct genotype-phenotype presentations of patients with hereditary tumors, the guideline recommends a personalized approach to patient management. Of note is that SDHD and SDHAF2 are maternally imprinted and therefore one or more generations can be skipped. During the first 2 decades of life (before the age of 20 years), the most common hereditary pheochromocytoma-paraganglioma syndromes found are related to von Hippel Lindau disease, paraganglioma syndrome type 4 (SDHB), and neurofibromatosis type 1. Pheochromocytomas related to multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 occur most frequently between the
