Overview of Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, pubmed, patients, primary, blood, pressure, aldosterone, syndrome, blood pressure, endocrinol, clin, adrenal, aldosteronism, free, endocrine


found are related to von Hippel Lindau disease, paraganglioma syndrome type 4 (SDHB), and neurofibromatosis type 1. Pheochromocytomas related to multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 occur most frequently between the third and fifth decade of life and should first be considered in a patient presenting with bilateral pheochromocytomas. The mean penetrance of pheochromocytoma or paraganglioma in individuals carrying a RET germline mutation is 50% by the age of 44 years ( 82 ). Approximately 35% of extra-adrenal pheochromocytomas are considered “malignant” (metastasizing) as opposed to approximately 10% of those arising in the adrenal gland. The 2017 WHO classification of endocrine tumors replaced the term “malignant” with “metastatic”. The risk for metastases increases when the tumor exceeds 5 cm in size and when there is a germline mutation in the SDHB gene ( 83 , 84 ). Localization CT or MR imaging can localize the tumor in approx. 95% of cases. For metastatic pheochromocytomas, 18F-Fluorodopamine and 18F-FDG PET appears to be more helpful than 123I-MIBG or 131I-MIBG scintigraphy ( 85 , 86 ). In fact, MIBG scintigraphy should nowadays only been used in selected patients ( 85 , 87 ). Many medications can interfere with 123I-MIBG or 131I-MIBG uptake (for instance, calcium channel blockers, antipsychotics) and should be discontinued before the scan/imaging. The 2014 Endocrine Society guideline recommends the use of 123I-MIBG in patients with metastatic pheochromocytoma-paraganglioma when radiotherapy with 131I-MIBG is planned and occasionally in some patients with an increased risk for metastatic disease (large tumor size, extra-adrenal tumor, multifocal or recurrent disease) ( 22 ). For patients with head and neck paragangliomas, 111In-octreotide has a very good sensitivity ( 88 ). Newer functional imaging techniques such as 68Ga-labeled 1,4,7,10-tetraazacylododecane-1,4,7,10-tetraacetic acid-octreotate (DOTATATE) of 18F-labeled L-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) have excellent resolution in detecting pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas. Medical Treatment The Endocrine Society, the American Association for Clinical Chemistry, and the European Society of Endocrinology have released clinical practice guidelines recommended preoperative blockade of hormonally functional PPGL to prevent cardiovascular complications, along with medication for normalization of blood pressure as well as heart rate. Alpha-adrenergic blockade (i.e., doxazosin, prazosin or terazosin) followed by a β-adrenergic blockade (i.e., propranolol, atenolol) is recommended for preoperative preparation ( 89 ). It is also suggested to administer high-sodium diet and fluid intake to prevent low blood pressure after surgery. Approx. 50% of patients with metastatic pheochromocytomas respond to 131I-MIBG therapy by partial remission or at least stable disease.
