Overview of Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, pubmed, patients, primary, blood, pressure, aldosterone, syndrome, blood pressure, endocrinol, clin, adrenal, aldosteronism, free, endocrine


diet and fluid intake to prevent low blood pressure after surgery. Approx. 50% of patients with metastatic pheochromocytomas respond to 131I-MIBG therapy by partial remission or at least stable disease. Selective alpha1 blocking agents, such as prazosin (Minipress), terazosin (Hytrin), and doxazosin (Cardura), have more favorable adverse effect profiles and are used when long-term therapy is required (metastatic pheochromocytoma). Newer therapy options of metastatic pheochromocytoma-paraganglioma include 90Y-DOTATATE and 177Lu-DOTATATE. Chemotherapy is usually administered according to the so-called Averbuch protocol from 1988. New therapies may include tyrosine kinase inhibitors in selected patients ( 90 ). Surgical Treatment For tumors exceeding 5 cm in size, open adrenalectomy has long been considered the suggested procedure for tumor removal rather than laparoscopic or retroperitoneoscopic minimally invasive tumor removal, to ensure complete tumor resection, prevent tumor (capsule) rupture, and avoid local recurrence ( 22 ) ( Figure 4 and 5 ) Figure 4. Computed tomography showing recurrence of a right adrenal pheochromocytoma. unpublished observation in a patient with MEN2-related bilateral pheochromocytomas and unilateral tumor recurrence 11 years after bilateral adrenalectomy, photo: courtesy of Prof. Andrea Tannapfel). Figure 5. Macroscopic photo of a right adrenal pheochromocytoma removed from the above patient with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2. For pheochromocytomas less than 6 cm, a recent cohort study from a multicenter consortium-based registry for 625 patients treated for bilateral pheochromocytomas between 1950 and 2018 compared patients undergoing total vs. cortical-sparing adrenalectomy and found that patients undergoing cortical-sparing adrenalectomy did not demonstrate decreased survival, despite development of recurrent pheochromocytoma in 13%. The authors recommend cortical-sparing adrenalectomy should be considered in all patients with hereditary pheochromocytoma ( 91 ). A retrospective, multicenter, international study in patients carrying the Met918Thr RET variant with no age restrictions who were followed from 1970 to 2016 based on registry data from 48 centers globally, found that adrenal-sparing surgery in multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2B can preserve normal adrenal function. In that study, three (10%) of the 31 patients in whom adrenal-sparing surgery had been performed, developed long-term recurrence, while normal adrenal function was maintained in 16 (62%) of patients ( 92 ). Apparently one third of one functioning adrenal gland is sufficient for normal glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid secretion ( 93 ). CUSHING’S SYNDROME Hypercortisolemia is associated with hypertension in approximately 80% of adult cases and half of children ( 94 , 95 ). A workshop consensus paper attempted to rationalize the treatment of
