Overview of Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, pubmed, patients, primary, blood, pressure, aldosterone, syndrome, blood pressure, endocrinol, clin, adrenal, aldosteronism, free, endocrine


Hypercortisolemia is associated with hypertension in approximately 80% of adult cases and half of children ( 94 , 95 ). A workshop consensus paper attempted to rationalize the treatment of hypertension in patients with Cushing’s syndrome ( 95 ). In patients with Cushing’s disease, night-time blood pressure decline is significantly lower than that in patients with essential hypertension ( 96 ). After cure of Cushing’s syndrome, approximately 30% of patients have persistent hypertension ( 97 ). In children and adolescents, blood pressure normalization occurs in most patients within a year and seems to be dependent on the degree and duration of presurgical hypercortisolemia ( 94 ). In patients with Cushing’s disease, renin and DOC levels are usually normal, whereas in ectopic corticotropin syndrome, hypokalemia is common and related to an increased mineralocorticoid activity with suppressed renin and elevated DOC levels ( 98 ). There are several mechanisms of blood pressure elevation in Cushing’s syndrome: increased hepatic production of angiotensinogen and cardiac output by glucocorticoids, reduced production of prostaglandins via inhibition of phospholipase A, increased insulin resistance, and oversaturation of 11beta-Hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase activity with increased mineralocorticoid effect through stimulation of the mineralocorticoid receptor ( 99 ). Screening studies for Cushing’s syndrome include measuring 24-h urinary free cortisol excretion on at least 2 occasions, performing a 1 mg dexamethasone suppression test, checking a midnight salivary cortisol and diurnal rhythm of cortisol secretion, and others listed in the recent Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guideline ( 100 ). Therapy should be directed at removing glucocorticoid excess ( 101 ). Hypokalemia (especially in patients with ectopic ACTH production) can be treated with mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists such as spironolactone or eplerenone. Thiazide diuretics may also be helpful. Given the increasing improvement in imaging and laboratory (assays etc.) techniques/modalities, one can expect an increasing number of incidentally discovered tumors and nodules in various organs including the adrenal glands. The future challenge will be when and to which extent to test individuals for disease conditions ( 102 , 103 ). For those individuals with adrenal incidentalomas but clearly lack of clinical features of Cushing’s syndrome, subclinical hypercortisolism may be detected biochemically depending upon which cutoff values and assays will be used ( 104 ). For the latter population, the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists recommend using a cutoff for (8 AM) serum cortisol of 5 mcg/dl after 1 mg overnight (11 PM) dexamethasone which reveals approx. 58% sensitivity
