Overview of Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, pubmed, patients, primary, blood, pressure, aldosterone, syndrome, blood pressure, endocrinol, clin, adrenal, aldosteronism, free, endocrine


the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists recommend using a cutoff for (8 AM) serum cortisol of 5 mcg/dl after 1 mg overnight (11 PM) dexamethasone which reveals approx. 58% sensitivity at a 100% specificity ( 105 ). A lower cutoff for serum cortisol suppression, i.e. 1.8 mcg/dl, usually rules out Cushing’s syndrome ( 102 ). A prospective, randomized study including 45 patients with subclinical hypercortisolism and adrenal incidentalomas was divided into 23 pts who underwent adrenalectomy and 22 pts under surveillance. Monitoring included glycemic control, blood pressure, lipid profile, obesity, and bone mineral density. In the surgical group, diabetes mellitus improved in 62% and hypertension in 67% of pts, whereas the conservative group showed worsening of glycemic control, blood pressure and lipid profiles ( 37 ). To better understand the sequelae of disturbed adrenal hormone synthesis, please refer to Figure 6 and related Endotext chapters ( 106 , 107 ). Figure 6. Adrenal Steroid Synthesis. Z Glom = zona glomerulosa; Z Fas = zona fasciculata; Z Ret = zona reticularis; 19-H = 19-Hydroxylase; HSD = Hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase; P450aro = aromatase; 5alpha-Red = 5alpha-Reductase. The 3 adrenal cortex zones Z Glom, Z Fas, and Z Ret stand above the “column” of hormones that are produced in the respective zone. The steroidogenic enzymes on the left starting with P450scc (Desmolase) are listed in order for “vertical and horizontal reading”, i.e. Desmolase converts cholesterol to pregnenolone, 3beta-OH-Steroid Dehydrogenase I/II convert pregnenolone to progesterone, 17-OH-Pregnenolone to 17-OH-Progesterone, and P450c11 converts deoxycorticosterone to 18-OH-Corticosterone and 11-Deoxycortisol to cortisol, etc. (modified from ref. 35 : Koch CA. Encyclopedia of Endocrine Disease, 2004) GLUCOCORTICOID RESISTANCE (CHROUSOS SYNDROME) This autosomal recessive or dominant inherited disorder is rare and caused by inactivating mutations of the glucocorticoid receptor gene ( 108 , 109 ). Cortisol and ACTH are elevated but there are no clinical features of Cushing syndrome. Permanent elevation of ACTH can lead to stimulation of adrenal compounds with mineralocorticoid activity (corticosterone, DOC), along with elevated cortisol secretion may lead to stimulation of the mineralocorticoid receptor, resulting in hypertension. In women, hirsutism and oligo-amenorrhea may develop through stimulation of androgens (androstenedione, DHEA, 5-androstendiol). Clinically, children may present with ambiguous genitalia and precocious puberty. Men may be infertile and/or oligospermic. Women may have acne, excessive hair, menstrual irregularities with oligo- anovulation, as well as infertility ( 108 – 110 ). Treatment entails suppression of ACTH secretion with high doses of
