Overview of Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, pubmed, patients, primary, blood, pressure, aldosterone, syndrome, blood pressure, endocrinol, clin, adrenal, aldosteronism, free, endocrine


Women may have acne, excessive hair, menstrual irregularities with oligo- anovulation, as well as infertility ( 108 – 110 ). Treatment entails suppression of ACTH secretion with high doses of dexamethasone (1-3 mg/day). Mineralocorticoid receptor-dependent hypertension may be treated with blockade of the receptor, with spironolactone or eplerenone. CONGENITAL ADRENAL HYPERPLASIA 11Beta-Hydroxylase Deficiency The most common cause of congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) is 21-hydroxylase deficiency. Hypertension per se has not been regarded as a component of this syndrome. Recent data have suggested that hypertension may be more prevalent in this patient population than previously thought ( 111 – 113 ). Approx. 5% of all cases of CAH care caused by 11beta-hydroxylase deficiency. 11beta-hydroxylase is responsible for the conversion of deoxycorticosterone (DOC) to corticosterone (precursor of aldosterone) and 11-deoxycortisol to cortisol. In approximately 2/3 of individuals affected by a deficiency of this enzyme, monogenic low renin hypertension with low aldosterone levels occurs caused by accumulation of 11-deoxycortisol and DOC ( 114 , 115 ). The earliest age of onset of hypertension was reported at birth ( 116 ). The inheritance mode is autosomal recessive. The responsible gene CYP11B1 is located on chromosome 8 and is mutated ( 40 , 117 , 118 ). Since corticotropin (ACTH) is chronically elevated and precursors such as 17-OH progesterone and androstenedione accumulate, androgen production is increased and may lead to prenatal virilization with resulting pseudohermaphroditism in females. Males may develop pseudoprecocious puberty, short stature, and sometimes prepubertal gynecomastia ( 119 , 120 ). Usually, glucocorticoid replacement reduces hypertension in these patients. In selected patients, bilateral adrenalectomy may be safe and effective in managing high blood pressure ( 121 ). 17Alpha-Hydroxylase Deficiency This enzyme deficiency is rare and leads to diminished production of cortisol and sex steroids. Chronic elevation of ACTH causes an increased production of DOC and corticosterone with subsequent hypertension, hypokalemia, low aldosterone concentrations with suppressed renin as well as pseudohermaphroditism in XY males ( 122 ), and sexual infantilism and primary amenorrhea in females ( 123 , 124 ). Diagnosis may be delayed until puberty. Plasma adrenal androgen levels are low as are cortisol, aldosterone, plasma renin activity, and 17alpha-hydroxyprogesterone. DOC, corticosterone, and 18-hydroxycorticosterone are elevated. Blood pressure is reduced by glucocorticoid replacement. The responsible gene for cytochrome P450C17 is located on chromosome 10q24. DEOXYCORTICOSTERONE-PRODUCING TUMOR Deoxycorticosterone-producing tumors are rare adrenal tumors presented mostly large and malignant ( 125 ). Along with deoxycortisone,
