Overview of Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, pubmed, patients, primary, blood, pressure, aldosterone, syndrome, blood pressure, endocrinol, clin, adrenal, aldosteronism, free, endocrine


The responsible gene for cytochrome P450C17 is located on chromosome 10q24. DEOXYCORTICOSTERONE-PRODUCING TUMOR Deoxycorticosterone-producing tumors are rare adrenal tumors presented mostly large and malignant ( 125 ). Along with deoxycortisone, androgens and estrogens may be co-secreted. Women may present virilization and men feminization. Hypertension and hypokalemia may manifest with rapid onset. Renin and aldosterone are often low. APPARENT MINERALOCORTICOID EXCESS Low-renin hypertension (undetectable aldosterone, hypokalemia) can present in various forms, one of them is apparent mineralocorticoid excess (AME), an autosomal recessive disorder caused by deficiency of the 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 (11beta-HSD2) enzyme ( 49 , 126 , 127 ). This enzyme converts cortisol to the inactive cortisone in renal tubular cells. In 1977, New et al. ( 128 ) first described this syndrome and in 1995 Wilson et al. ( 129 ) first reported that mutations in the 11beta-HSD2 gene located on chromosome 16q22 cause AME. The 11beta-HSD2 enzyme is co-expressed with the mineralocorticoid receptor in renal tubular cells and leads to conversion of cortisol to cortisone ( 130 , 131 ). Cortisone does not bind to the mineralocorticoid receptor. Cortisol and aldosterone bind with equal affinity to the mineralocorticoid receptor, but normal circulating concentrations of cortisol are 100 to 1000 fold higher than those of aldosterone ( 132 ). If 11beta-HSD2 is oversaturated or defective, more cortisol will be available to bind to the mineralocorticoid receptor ( 133 ). Diminished 11beta-HSD2 activity may be hereditary or acquired. Acquired deficiency of this enzyme may result from inhibition by glycyrrhizin acid which may occur with use of licorice, chewing tobacco, and carbenoxolone. In childhood, AME often causes growth retardation/short stature, hypertension, hypokalemia, diabetes insipidus renalis, and nephrocalcinosis. Diminished 11beta-HSD2 activity may play a role in the pathogenesis of preeclampsia ( 134 ). The diagnosis of AME can be established by measuring free unconjugated steroids in urine (free cortisol/free cortisone ratio), and/or steroid metabolites (tetrahydrocortisol + allotetrahydrocortisol/tetrahydrocortisone) ( 135 ). Affected individuals have low renin and aldosterone levels, normal plasma cortisol levels, and hypokalemia. Treatment of AME consists of spironolactone, eplerenone, triamterene, or amiloride. Renal transplant is an option for patients with advanced renal insufficiency. CONSTITUTIVE ACTIVATION OF THE MINERALOCORTICOID RECEPTOR (GELLER SYNDROME) The Mineralocorticoid (MC) receptor can be mutated leading to the onset of hypertension before age 20 ( 136 ). In vitro experiments demonstrate that progesterone and spironolactone, usually antagonists of the (MC) receptor, become agonists in Geller syndrome,
