Overview of Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, pubmed, patients, primary, blood, pressure, aldosterone, syndrome, blood pressure, endocrinol, clin, adrenal, aldosteronism, free, endocrine


to the onset of hypertension before age 20 ( 136 ). In vitro experiments demonstrate that progesterone and spironolactone, usually antagonists of the (MC) receptor, become agonists in Geller syndrome, suggesting “gain of function” mutations in the MC gene on chromosome 4q31. The inheritance pattern is autosomal-dominant. LIDDLE SYNDROME In 1963, Liddle ( 137 ) described patients with severe hypertension, hypokalemia, and metabolic alkalosis, who had low plasma aldosterone levels and plasma renin activity. An improvement of the hypertension occurred after salt restriction and triamterene therapy. Spironolactone is ineffective in this autosomal-dominant inherited syndrome. So-called “gain of function” mutations in the genes coding for the beta- or gamma-subunit of the renal epithelial sodium channel, located at chromosome 16p13, lead to constitutive activation of renal sodium reabsorption and subsequent volume expansion. The 24-h urine cortisone/cortisol ratio is normal. PSEUDOHYPALDOSTERONISM TYPE 2 Pseudohypoaldosteronism type 2 or Gordon’s syndrome ( 138 ) is a rare Mendelian disorder, transmitted in an autosomal dominant fashion, and can cause low renin hypertension ( 139 ). It has an unknown prevalence, since many patients remain undiagnosed. Published families with this condition (hypertension, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, normal renal function, low/normal aldosterone levels) are predominantly from Australia or the United States ( 138 ). Hypertension in these patients may develop as a consequence of increased renal salt reabsorption, and hyperkalemia ensues as a result of reduced renal K excretion despite normal glomerular filtration and aldosterone secretion ( 140 ). The reduced renal secretion of potassium makes this condition look like an aldosterone-deficient state, thus the term “pseudohypoaldosteronism”. These features are chloride dependent. Infusion of sodium chloride instead of sodium bicarbonate corrects the abnormalities, as does the administration of thiazide diuretics, which inhibit salt reabsorption in the distal nephron. Gordon and coworkers found that all features could be reversed by very strict dietary salt restriction ( 138 ). Gordon syndrome is an autosomal, dominantly inherited disorder with genes mapping to chromosomes 1, 12, and 17 ( 141 , 142 ). Mutations have been identified in WNK kinases WNK1 and WNK4 on chromosomes 12 and 17, respectively ( 141 , 143 ). Abnormalities such as activating mutations in the amiloride-sensitive sodium channel of the distal renal tubule are responsible for the clinical phenotype ( 144 , 145 ). Severe dietary salt restriction, antihypertensives, with preferably use of thiazide diuretics, can control the hypertension in this syndrome. Interestingly, common variants in WNK1
