Overview of Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, pubmed, patients, primary, blood, pressure, aldosterone, syndrome, blood pressure, endocrinol, clin, adrenal, aldosteronism, free, endocrine


clinical phenotype ( 144 , 145 ). Severe dietary salt restriction, antihypertensives, with preferably use of thiazide diuretics, can control the hypertension in this syndrome. Interestingly, common variants in WNK1 contribute to blood pressure variation in the general population ( 146 ). INSULIN RESISTANCE The metabolic syndrome is characterized by hypertension, abdominal/visceral obesity, dyslipidemia, and insulin resistance ( 147 ). At least 24% of adults in the United States meet the criteria for the diagnosis of metabolic syndrome, and this number may even be higher for individuals over the age of 50 years ( 148 ). Insulin resistance is significantly associated with hypertension in Hispanics and can cause vascular dysfunction ( 16 , 149 ). Patients with essential hypertension often are insulin resistant ( 150 ). Interestingly, not all insulin resistant patients are obese. Excess weight gain, however, accounts for as much as 70% of the risk for essential hypertension and also increases the risk for end stage renal disease ( 16 ). In insulin-sensitive tissues, insulin can directly stimulate the calcium pump leading to calcium loss from the cell ( 151 ). In an adipocyte, elevated cytosolic calcium concentrations can induce insulin resistance. In a cell resistant to insulin, the insulin-induced calcium loss from cells would be decreased. With the subsequent increase in intracellular calcium, vascular smooth muscle cells respond more eagerly to vasoconstrictors and thus lead to rising blood pressure. Other mechanisms possibly explaining the association of insulin resistance and hypertension are increased sodium retention and increased activity of the adrenergic nervous system. In obesity, increased production of most adipokines (bioactive peptides secreted by adipose tissue) impacts on multiple functions including insulin sensitivity, blood pressure, lipid metabolism, and others ( 152 , 153 ). PRIMARY HYPERPARATHYROIDISM Parathyroid hormone levels in hypertensive patients usually are in the normal range and appropriate for the serum calcium concentration. However, patients with essential hypertension excrete more calcium compared to normotensive people, suggesting an enhanced parathyroid gland function ( 154 ). When infused, PTH is a vasodilator, although chronic infusion of PTH raises blood pressure in healthy subjects ( 155 , 156 ). High-calcium intake may lower blood pressure ( 157 , 158 ). However, hypercalcemia is associated with an increased incidence of hypertension ( 1 ). In patients with primary hyperparathyroidism, hypertension is observed in approximately 40% of cases. The mechanisms of these observations/associations are unclear. Hypertension is usually not cured or
