Overview of Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, pubmed, patients, primary, blood, pressure, aldosterone, syndrome, blood pressure, endocrinol, clin, adrenal, aldosteronism, free, endocrine


hypertension ( 1 ). In patients with primary hyperparathyroidism, hypertension is observed in approximately 40% of cases. The mechanisms of these observations/associations are unclear. Hypertension is usually not cured or better controlled after parathyroidectomy ( 159 ). In patients with asymptomatic primary hyperparathyroidism, surgery/parathyroidectomy did not show any benefit regarding blood pressure or quality of life when compared to medical management ( 160 ). On the other hand, severe hypertension may improve in patients with primary hyperparathyroidism who undergo parathyroidectomy. Arterial stiffness measured in the radial artery seems to be increased in patients with mild primary hyperparathyroidism ( 161 ). Patients with primary hyperparathyroidism have carotid vascular abnormalities ( 162 ). In normotensive patients with primary hyperparathyroidism, SBP variability is increased and is reduced by parathyroidectomy ( 163 , 164 ). Furthermore, parathyroidectomy in patients with primary hyperparathyroidism may decrease risk of cardiovascular diseases by lowering total cholesterol levels, although ambulatory diastolic BP increases in response to surgery ( 165 ). Another contributory factor to hypertension in patients with primary HPT may be endothelial dysfunction ( 166 ). In MEN syndromes, hypertension in patients with hyperparathyroidism may be related to an underlying pheochromocytoma or primary aldosteronism. Criteria for parathyroidectomy have recently been revisited at the Fourth International Workshop on the management of asymptomatic primary hyperparathyroidism, including now skeletal and/or renal involvement (nephrocalcinosis on imaging) ( 167 ). HYPERTHYROIDISM Hyperthyroidism increases systolic blood pressure by increasing heart rate, decreasing systemic vascular resistance, and raising cardiac output ( 168 – 171 ). In thyrotoxicosis, patients usually are tachycardic and have high cardiac output with an increased stroke volume and elevated systolic blood pressure ( 172 , 173 ). Approx. one third of patients with hyperthyroidism have hypertension which often resolves after achieving euthyroidism ( 174 ). Subclinical hyperthyroidism may contribute to left ventricular hypertrophy and thereby lead to hypertension , although it has not yet been found to be associated with hypertension ( 174 ). HYPOTHYROIDISM Hypothyroid patients have impaired endothelial function, increased systemic vascular resistance, extracellular volume expansion, and an increased diastolic blood pressure ( 89 , 171 , 175 ). Hypothyroid patients have higher mean 24-h systolic blood pressure and BP variability on 24-h ambulatory BP monitoring ( 176 ). In 32% of hypertensive hypothyroid patients, replacement therapy with thyroxine leads to a fall in diastolic blood pressure to 90 mm Hg or less ( 177 ). There is a
