Overview of Endocrine Hypertension
KEYWORDS: hypertension, pubmed, patients, primary, blood, pressure, aldosterone, syndrome, blood pressure, endocrinol, clin, adrenal, aldosteronism, free, endocrine


In 32% of hypertensive hypothyroid patients, replacement therapy with thyroxine leads to a fall in diastolic blood pressure to 90 mm Hg or less ( 177 ). There is a positive association between serum TSH and blood pressure within the normal serum TSH range, statistically significant for diastolic hypertension ( 177 ). Subclinical hypothyroidism may or may not to be associated with hypertension. Hypothyroidism can lead to volume-dependent blood pressure elevation with low plasma renin concentrations ( 178 – 180 ). ACROMEGALY The prevalence of hypertension in patients with growth hormone excess is approximately 46% and more frequent than in the general population ( 181 , 182 ). Growth hormone has antinatriuretic actions and may lead to sodium retention and volume expansion ( 181 , 182 ). Increased systolic output and high heart rate as manifestations of a hyperkinetic syndrome may lead to congestive heart failure ( 181 , 183 ). Blood pressure values are increased in patients with acromegaly associated with reduced glucose tolerance or diabetes compared to those with normal glucose tolerance ( 181 ). The RAAS system appears to be implicated in the pathogenesis of hypertension in patients with growth hormone excess ( 181 , 183 – 185 ). Comorbidities in acromegalics, such as hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes mellitus, and cardiomyopathy, all may improve even with partial biochemical control of growth hormone excess ( 184 , 186 ). However, in some patients, hypertension and diabetes mellitus may persist after attempting biochemical cure/remission ( 187 ). OTHER POTENTIAL ENDOCRINE CONDITIONS CAUSING ENDOCRINE HYPERTENSION There is accumulating evidence that vitamin D deficiency may be linked to an increased cardiovascular risk and hypertension ( 188 ). Potential mechanisms in this setting are concurrent insulin resistance and direct vitamin D action through the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system ( Figure 7 ). Figure 7. Pathway of vitamin D metabolism and its relationship with PTH and the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (modified from Ullah et al., 2009)( 188 ) Testosterone deficiency is frequently identified in obese individuals and those with diabetes mellitus and/or metabolic syndrome including hypertension. Replacement therapy in selected patients may be beneficial not only related to their symptomatology of androgen deficiency such as low libido, poor erections, fatigue, and others, but also in regards to their metabolic profile and blood pressure ( 189 , 190 ). Similarly, individuals with growth hormone deficiency may be at risk for developing hypertension, mostly because of their body composition
