Fetal and Neonatal Sterol Metabolism
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, pubmed, fetal, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, article, maternal, sterol, levels, synthesis, hdl, lipoproteins


ABSTRACT Cholesterol is critical during the development of embryos, fetuses and neonates to support their growth and development. Cholesterol is a structural component of membranes in every cell, it is involved with numerous signaling events, and it is the precursor for key steroid hormones. All individuals, either in utero or post-partum, have two sources of cholesterol, endogenous and exogenous. In the embryo and fetus, endogenous cholesterol comes from de novo synthesis and exogenous sources originate in the maternal circulation; maternal cholesterol-carrying lipoproteins are taken up from the maternal circulation by the placenta or yolk sac, processed, and transported across cells to the embryo or fetus. In the neonate, endogenous cholesterol is also synthesized de novo whereas exogenous cholesterol is derived from the diet. Changes in maternal metabolism (diabetes or obesity) or adverse pregnancy outcomes (preterm births or preeclampsia) could lead to altered fetal sterol metabolism. In this review, we will examine fetal and neonatal cholesterol metabolism in complicated and uncomplicated pregnancies. Early identification of neonatal cholesterol abnormalities could identify infants in need of immediate treatments, mostly due to genetic disorders, and infants that could be at long-term risk of metabolic diseases. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . SOURCES OF FETAL CHOLESTEROL A significant amount of cholesterol is accrued during gestation. A newborn that weighs ≈4.5 kg requires ≈12 g of cholesterol with concentrations ranging from ≈2.2 mg cholesterol/g liver and peripheral tissues and ≈8 mg cholesterol/g neuronal tissues [reviewed in ( 1 , 2 )]. Cholesterol is not only needed to maintain structural integrity but is also required for a variety of signaling events and as precursor of steroid hormones. Signaling that depends on cholesterol is varied, and includes the presence of cholesterol in specific regions of the membranes (lipid rafts) to allow signaling proteins to aggregate and bind specific scaffold proteins and to form endosomes ( 3 - 7 ), the formation of unique covalent bonds between cholesterol and Hedgehog (HH) and Smoothened ( 8 , 9 ), and the conversion of cholesterol to active oxysterols ( 10 , 11 ). The fetus has two sources of cholesterol, that synthesized de novo and that obtained from the maternal circulation. Sterol Synthesis Sterol synthesis rates are much greater in the fetus than in the adult in several species ( 2 , 12 - 16 ), including humans ( 2
