Fetal and Neonatal Sterol Metabolism
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, pubmed, fetal, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, article, maternal, sterol, levels, synthesis, hdl, lipoproteins


circulation. Sterol Synthesis Sterol synthesis rates are much greater in the fetus than in the adult in several species ( 2 , 12 - 16 ), including humans ( 2 ). Rates are high enough to account for a significant proportion of the fetal cholesterol in rodents ( 12 , 17 - 19 ). Synthesis rates vary between different fetal tissues and is greatest in the liver early in gestation. As gestation progresses, hepatic synthesis decreases to rates similar to other tissues by late in gestation ( 13 ). While the brain has the greatest cholesterol concentration, synthesis rates are not extremely elevated as cholesterol is turned over at very low rates in the brain ( 1 ). Sterol biosynthesis is regulated at several different steps in the biosynthetic pathway primarily by the processing of transcription factor sterol regulatory element-binding protein-2 (SREBP-2) to the mature form. When cellular cholesterol concentrations are elevated in adult tissues, sterol synthesis rates and mature SREBP-2 levels are decreased ( 14 , 20 ). In contrast, when cellular cholesterol concentrations are elevated in the fetus, sterol synthesis rates are suppressed only marginally and mature SREBP-2 levels do not decrease ( 14 ), suggesting constitutive processing of SREBP, and higher synthesis rates in the fetus. This same lack of regulation in fetal tissues was found when fetal hepatocytes were treated with lipoprotein-cholesterol ( 21 ) and when fetuses were exposed to polyunsaturated fatty acids in vivo ( 22 ). Interestingly, sterol synthesis rates can be stimulated in vitro by hormones synthesized by the placenta, including estrogens and progesterone, possibly to ensure that essential lipids are abundantly present ( 23 ). Maternally-Derived Cholesterol The second source of fetal cholesterol originates in the maternal circulation. Several lines of evidence support the presence of maternally-derived cholesterol in the fetal circulation. First, while there is no correlation between maternal and newborn cholesterol concentrations in term or late preterm infants, there is a direct relationship between maternal and fetal plasma cholesterol concentrations early in gestation ( 24 ). Second, correlations between maternal and fetal concentrations occur when maternal plasma concentrations are correlated to fetal arterial and not fetal venous plasma concentrations ( 25 ). Third, fetuses of mothers with higher plasma cholesterol levels have increased intimal plaque ( 24 ). Fourth, there are significant amounts of plant sterols in the newborn circulation, 40-50% of that found in the maternal circulation (
