Fetal and Neonatal Sterol Metabolism
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, pubmed, fetal, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, article, maternal, sterol, levels, synthesis, hdl, lipoproteins


cholesterol levels have increased intimal plaque ( 24 ). Fourth, there are significant amounts of plant sterols in the newborn circulation, 40-50% of that found in the maternal circulation ( 26 ). As these sterols are only obtained from the diet of the mother, they must cross the placental barrier. Fifth, fetuses lacking the ability to synthesize cholesterol due to a null/null mutation in one of the enzymes of the cholesterol biosynthetic pathway, such as dehydrocholesterol-7 reductase, have measurable, though low, amounts of cholesterol at birth ( 27 , 28 ). Finally, using a 4-vessel sampling method in pregnant women, researchers measured substantial uptake of cholesterol by the fetus with more maternal HDL-C being taken up by the fetus vs maternal LDL-C ( 29 ). The route by which maternally-derived cholesterol is delivered to the fetus differs as the maternal-fetal interface changes during gestation (see Figure 1 ). Very early in gestation (≈first 5 weeks), endocrine gland secretions containing maternally-derived cholesterol as lipid droplets bathe the blastocyst as they invade the uterine wall and are the main source of maternally-derived lipids, and overall histotrophic nutrition ( 30 ). As gestation progresses (≈5 th to ≈10 th week of gestation), the newly formed secondary yolk sac of the embryo floats in the nutrient-rich exocoleom cavity ( 31 ) ( Fig. 1A ). Nutrition at this stage is still primarily histotrophic and consists primarily of lipid-containing secretions from uterine glands and possibly some maternal lipoproteins from maternal blood which has seeped into the exocoleomic cavity ( 30 ). The human yolk sacs are not inverted, as they are in rodents, such that the highly absorptive apical side of the yolk sac faces inward ( 30 - 32 ), and the lipids would need to enter the yolk sac cavity via lipoprotein or endocytic receptors or other carriers ( 33 - 36 ). Once taken up, the cholesterol from the lipids or lipoproteins ( 37 ) are repackaged into nascent lipoproteins ( 34 , 38 , 39 ), which are secreted into the vitelline duct artery which is integrated into the midgut of the embryo ( 30 , 31 , 40 ). In rodents, an inability to form lipoproteins in the yolk sac is lethal ( 41 ). Figure 1. Scheme of the sources of cholesterol from different times of gestation. A. From about 5-10 weeks of gestation, the primary source of nutrition
