Fetal and Neonatal Sterol Metabolism
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, pubmed, fetal, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, article, maternal, sterol, levels, synthesis, hdl, lipoproteins


nutrients. The maternally-derived lipoproteins are taken up via receptor-independent and receptor-dependent processes, including the LDL receptor, the VLDL receptor, the class A scavenger receptor, the LDL receptor-related protein (LRP), the APOE receptor 2, megalin, cubilin, and the scavenger receptor class B type I (SR-BI) ( 35 , 42 ). The sterol-containing lipoproteins are then transported to lysosomes where the sterol is released from lipoproteins via numerous lysosomal hydrolases and transported to the basolateral side of the trophoblasts by carrier and transport proteins ( 37 ). On the basolateral (fetal-facing) side of trophoblasts, the sterols exit the trophoblasts into the stroma, are subsequently taken up by and cross fetal endothelial cells, and ultimately exit these cells and enter the fetal circulation. It also is possible that the LDL or HDL are transcytosed across trophoblasts and endothelial cells as whole particles ( 44 , 45 ). There are several routes by which cholesterol can exit the basolateral side of trophoblasts and fetal endothelial cells ( Figure 2 ), including secretion of particles and efflux of sterol to acceptors. Both processes can be regulated at several points. First, human placentas and cultured cells secrete newly synthesized APOB-containing lipoproteins ( 46 , 47 ) and APOA1 and APOE ( 48 ). As in other cells that secrete lipoproteins (hepatocytes and enterocytes), cellular cholesterol can drive lipoprotein-cholesterol secretion from trophoblasts ( 49 ). It is likely that other substrates would increase lipoprotein secretion from these cells. Estradiol, which is elevated during pregnancy, also increases secretion of nascent APOB-containing lipoproteins from cultured trophoblasts ( 47 ). Second, cholesterol can be effluxed from cells by either aqueous diffusion or by ATP binding cassette subfamily A member 1 (ABCA1), ABCG1, or SR-BI, all proteins which are expressed in trophoblasts ( 42 , 50 ). Regulation of efflux occurs at the level of cellular proteins that mediate efflux, including SR-BI, ABCA1, and ABCG1 ( 50 - 54 ), and by the level and type of acceptor in the circulation ( 55 ). The regulatory protein, liver X receptor (LXR), is a key mediator of ABCA1 and ABCG1 ( 56 ) ( 57 ). The levels of LXR are enhanced by oxysterols ( 58 ). Thus, changes in cellular oxysterols can enhance efflux via ABCA1/G1 (see Adverse pregnancy outcomes ). The movement of cholesterol by SR-BI is regulated by cholesterol concentrations and phospholipids in the cells and in the accepting
