Fetal and Neonatal Sterol Metabolism
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, pubmed, fetal, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, article, maternal, sterol, levels, synthesis, hdl, lipoproteins


can enhance efflux via ABCA1/G1 (see Adverse pregnancy outcomes ). The movement of cholesterol by SR-BI is regulated by cholesterol concentrations and phospholipids in the cells and in the accepting HDL ( 59 ). The expression of SR-BI also is regulated by a number of factors, including cellular sterol levels ( 60 ). Efflux is not only regulated by the proteins that enhance efflux, but also by the type and concentration of acceptors in endothelial spaces and circulation, with the amount of lipid-poor APOE or APOA1 and the composition of HDL being important. For example, we found that lipid-poor HDL from a fetus with the Smith-Lemli-Opitz Syndrome (SLOS) that is unable to synthesize cholesterol is a better acceptor of trophoblast cholesterol than a non-SLOS fetal HDL ( 61 ). Likewise, when HDL was changed to a better sterol-accepting particle by the phospholipid transfer protein, efflux from endothelial cells increased ( 62 , 63 ). One other aspect of HDL which affects efflux is the proteome ( 64 - 66 ). Fetal HDL does contain more APOE than adult HDL, less cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP), and equal lecithin cholesteryl acyl transferase (LCAT),a combination of proteins which support a larger particle that can efflux more cholesterol via SR-BI and ABCG1 and can’t obtain cholesterol from other lipoproteins via CETP ( 67 ). Figure 2. Routes of exit of cholesterol from trophoblasts and fetal endothelial cells. Cholesterol exits these cells by being effluxed out of cells to acceptors in the plasma or by being secreted. There are several routes for efflux to occur, and all proteins involved have been found in the cell types listed; aqueous diffusion to acceptors (with lipid-poor acceptors being most efficient), SR-BI mediated, ABCG1-mediated, and ABCA1-mediated. In trophoblasts, studies have shown that cells can secrete lipoproteins and apolipoproteins which will carry sterols to the circulation as they exit the cell. Finally, exosomes carry cholesterol as they exit cells. FETAL LIPOPROTEIN CHOLESTEROL CONCENTRATIONS AND COMPOSITION The functions of lipoproteins are to transport lipids through the plasma since cholesterol, and other lipids, are lipophilic and therefore not water soluble. The two lipoproteins that carry most of the circulating cholesterol are low-density lipoprotein (LDL) and high-density lipoprotein (HDL), with lower amounts being carried as very low-density lipoproteins (VLDL). According to the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES), adults with an average age of 49±18 years have an average total cholesterol
