Fetal and Neonatal Sterol Metabolism
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, pubmed, fetal, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, article, maternal, sterol, levels, synthesis, hdl, lipoproteins


) and, small-dense LDL particles are more abundant in fetal compared to adult circulations ( 91 ). In adults, the proteins carried by HDL are involved in oxidation, inflammation, hemostasis, vitamin transport, immunity, energy balance, and lipid transport ( 66 , 92 ). In contrast, fetal HDL particles are enriched in proteins involved in coagulation and transport, and is lacking in proteins involved in anti-oxidative processes, such as paraoxonase I (PON1) ( 90 ). The lack of PON1 on fetal HDL suggests that these particles do not have the same anti-oxidative capacity as that found in adults ( 90 ). In addition, fetal HDL is enriched in APOE. The excess APOE could enhance the uptake of fetal HDL into fetal tissues by members of the LDL receptor family, enhance efflux of cholesterol out of endothelial cells, and affect genes related to sterol metabolism and oxidation in fetal endothelial cells ( 93 ). Unlike HDL, fetal VLDL and LDL compositions have not been studied in any detail as of yet. REGULATION OF FETAL LIPOPROTEIN CHOLESTEROL CONCENTRATIONS In the fetus as in the adult, plasma lipoprotein-cholesterol levels are regulated by the amount of cholesterol entering versus that exiting the circulation. Adults in steady state have an equal amount of cholesterol entering and exiting the plasma unlike the fetus where the amount of cholesterol entering vs that exiting is not equal. The lower levels of cholesterol in fetal plasma suggests less cholesterol entering the plasma or more exiting the plasma. Low-Density Lipoprotein (LDL) LDL-C originally enters the plasma after the liver synthesizes and secretes VLDL which is converted to LDL in the circulation. Since the liver is not functionally developed in utero ( 94 , 95 ), lipoprotein production and secretion could be low, being at least part of the cause of the low fetal LDL-C levels. The lower levels of circulating fetal cholesterol levels could also be due to an increase in uptake of lipoprotein cholesterol from the circulation by LDL receptors. Using the in vivo catheterized pregnant sheep model, it was found that uptake of cholesterol by tissues is greater in utero than in the post-partum neonatal lamb ( 96 ). This is not unexpected as fetal tissues require significant amounts of cholesterol for membrane formation and for steroid hormone synthesis ( 97 - 99 ). High-Density Lipoprotein (HDL) Interestingly, HDL-C levels are relatively elevated in the fetus. Unlike VLDL and
