Fetal and Neonatal Sterol Metabolism
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, pubmed, fetal, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, article, maternal, sterol, levels, synthesis, hdl, lipoproteins


of cholesterol for membrane formation and for steroid hormone synthesis ( 97 - 99 ). High-Density Lipoprotein (HDL) Interestingly, HDL-C levels are relatively elevated in the fetus. Unlike VLDL and LDL, HDL is produced in the circulation and as such is not dependent upon the fetal liver for lipoprotein production. To produce HDL, cholesterol is effluxed from cells by lipid-poor APOA1 or APOE, followed by esterification of the cholesterol by lecithin cholesterol acyl transferase (LCAT), all of which are present in the fetal circulation ( 90 ). ABNORMAL FETAL STEROL METABOLISM; IMPACT OF GENETIC ALTERATIONS AND ADVERSE PREGNANCY OUTCOMES Abnormal fetal sterol metabolism can come about by genetic alterations in the fetus and by influences of maternal factors (maternal obesity, diabetes, dyslipidemia, preeclampsia) on fetal metabolism. Genetic Even though two sources of cholesterol exist for the fetus, a majority of fetal cholesterol is likely derived from de novo synthesis. Thus, changes in sterol synthesis could lead to unfavorable development. There are several known genetic defects in the post-squalene cholesterol biosynthetic pathway that result in altered fetal phenotypes [reviewed in ( 50 , 100 - 102 )]; one pre-squalene defect occurs ( 103 ). Of these metabolic disorders, the most common is the SLOS. Individuals with SLOS have affected midline facial features, multiple organ and limb malformations, and intellectual disability. As sonic hedgehog (SHH) is expressed as early as 3 weeks after fertilization, and SHH is essential in a number of key developmental processes ( 104 , 105 ), changes in activation could have very early and significant effects. Indeed, lower SHH signaling has been associated with altered signaling that occurs in individuals with SLOS ( 106 ). Lower sterol synthesis rates in individuals with SLOS could also lead to reduced growth rates and intrauterine growth retardation (IUGR) ( 107 ). Though it was originally thought that the syndrome was due to a lack of cholesterol, the accumulation of 7-dehydrocholesterol (DHC) likely plays a role in the progression of the disease as well ( 108 ). Interestingly, a large percentage of individuals with SLOS are autistic ( 109 ) and some individuals with autism have been shown to have altered cholesterol metabolism ( 110 ) and dyslipidemia ( 111 , 112 ). Disruption of enzymes that occur pre-mevalonate in the sterol biosynthesis pathway has not been documented in live newborns, and are associated with embryonic lethality in murine deletion models [reviewed
