Fetal and Neonatal Sterol Metabolism
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, pubmed, fetal, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, article, maternal, sterol, levels, synthesis, hdl, lipoproteins


). Disruption of enzymes that occur pre-mevalonate in the sterol biosynthesis pathway has not been documented in live newborns, and are associated with embryonic lethality in murine deletion models [reviewed in ( 50 )]. Adverse Pregnancy Outcomes Pregnancies complicated with diabetes, obesity, or preeclampsia often have adverse outcomes, including preterm births, altered growth rates, and in the most severe cases, stillbirths and infant mortality. The link between the altered metabolism in the pregnant females and the fetuses are often unknown but are hypothesized to be related to inflammation or oxidative stress within the placenta or fetus. Oxidative stress increases in pregnancy, and especially in pregnancies associated with diabetes, obesity, and preeclampsia ( 113 , 114 ). There is an increase in oxygen species during oxidative stress which are involved in the conversion of cholesterol to oxysterols ( 115 , 116 ). Placenta and Fetal Endothelial Cells Oxysterols are detrimental during development as these cholesterol derivatives affect a number of signaling pathways including activation of the liver X receptor (LXR) ( 117 ) and inhibition of hedgehog signaling ( 118 ). The oxysterol-induced increase in LXR activation enhances cholesterol and oxysterol efflux from these cell types. Indeed, fetal endothelial cells of women with gestational diabetes had increases in LXR target genes, ABCA1 and ABCG1, and increased cholesterol efflux ( 119 ). Likewise, HDL-mediated cholesterol efflux and placental 27-hydroxycholesterol were increased in women with preeclampsia ( 120 ). Studies have shown reduced HDL-C and elevated LDL-C levels in preeclamptic infants ( 121 ) and increased oxidative modifications of LDL and HDL associated with decreased PON1 activity ( 122 ). Changes in the subfraction concentrations have been detected, as well, and infants of women with type I diabetes had greater HDL 2 -C and -phospholipid concentrations vs women without diabetes ( 123 ). These changes in sterol metabolism in the placenta, endothelial cells and fetus can lead to a variety of outcomes ranging from beneficial to adverse. First, an increase in efflux due to increased placental oxysterol levels would increase fetal cholesterol and oxysterol levels, which could be deleterious to the fetus as oxysterols can inhibit hedgehog signaling ( 118 ). In contrast, this same increase in efflux from cells with increased oxysterol could reduce the sterol concentrations in the placenta, possibly protecting the cells from a build-up of oxysterols, which could be improve placental metabolism. NEONATAL LIPOPROTEIN CHOLESTEROL CONCENTRATIONS AND CHOLESTEROL METABOLISM
