Fetal and Neonatal Sterol Metabolism
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, pubmed, fetal, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, article, maternal, sterol, levels, synthesis, hdl, lipoproteins


could reduce the sterol concentrations in the placenta, possibly protecting the cells from a build-up of oxysterols, which could be improve placental metabolism. NEONATAL LIPOPROTEIN CHOLESTEROL CONCENTRATIONS AND CHOLESTEROL METABOLISM The three major sources of nutrition in the United States during neonatal and early infancy are human milk, cow milk-based formulas, and soy milk-based formulas. The composition of these types of diet differs in several factors that may theoretically influence cholesterol homeostasis including cholesterol content, polyunsaturated/saturated fatty acid ratio (P/S ratio), protein composition, phytoestrogen content, and the presence of hormones specific to breast milk. More recent components of milk which also can affect metabolism include miRNAs, prebiotics, and extracellular vesicles ( 124 - 126 ). As with the fetus, neonates are in a rapid growth phase and require significant cholesterol for growth, energy, and normal cellular function. Infants fed human milk receive much greater quantities of cholesterol than those fed commercial formulas. Human milk contains between 10-15 mg/dl of cholesterol, cow milk-based formulas contain 1-4 mg/dl of cholesterol, and soy -based formulas contain no cholesterol. The soy-based formulas contain phytosterols (plant sterols), which actually inhibit cholesterol absorption ( 127 ). Not unexpectedly, breast-fed infants have higher serum cholesterol concentrations compared to formula-fed infants ( 128 , 129 ). In contrast to the fetus which does not suppress sterol synthesis rates, rapidly-growing neonates do suppress sterol synthesis ( 130 - 132 ). LONG-TERM IMPACT OF ALTERED FETAL AND NEONATAL STEROL METABOLISM In the early 1990s, Dr. David Barker discovered that persons growing up in less affluent areas of England and Wales were at an increased risk for infant mortality and long-term ischemic heart disease compared to persons in more affluent areas ( 133 ). Specifically, the adverse long-term consequences of heart disease were related to low birthweights. This relationship was confirmed by others [reviewed in ( 134 , 135 )], and was expanded to also include infants who are born large for gestational age (LGA), forming a U-shaped curve. Because of his early seminal work in this area, the “programming” of metabolism by early life environment has been coined the “Barker hypothesis” or DOHaD (Developmental Origins of Health and Disease). The importance of early nutrition has been labeled “1000 days” as that is the time from conception to the second birthday when much growth and development (and programming) ( 136 ). It is difficult to identify any long-term effects that are
