Fetal and Neonatal Sterol Metabolism
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, pubmed, fetal, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, article, maternal, sterol, levels, synthesis, hdl, lipoproteins


that is the time from conception to the second birthday when much growth and development (and programming) ( 136 ). It is difficult to identify any long-term effects that are specific to cholesterol as changes in cholesterol levels in the newborn or in utero are often associated with the oxidative stress which accompanies the adverse outcomes it is associated with. For example, some studies have shown infants of preeclamptic mothers or preterm infants to be at an increased risk of heart disease later in life ( 137 - 143 ). The long-term changes in metabolism that lead to programming in adulthood are likely epigenetic changes in genes controlling metabolism [reviewed in ( 144 )]. Indeed, the greatest epigenetic activity occurs in the first 1000 days of life ( 145 ). There are some recent treatments that are directed at changing the epigenome postnatally (not for newborns or neonates), including statins which are proposed to modify histones and various dietary regimes which can affect methylation status ( 146 ), and prenatally, including anti-oxidant compounds to reverse programming ( 147 ). It is not only the in utero environment which has the potential to lead to programming of metabolic disease or heart disease, but also the type of diet fed to the newborn ( 148 ). Since breast milk and formulas vary more than just in their cholesterol content, it is almost impossible to determine if early life cholesterol due to consumption of breast milk vs soy-based formulas affects age-related development of heart disease due to so many other non-sterol-based factors. However, if one were to focus solely on cholesterol, one hypothesis would be that Infants fed cholesterol-containing human milk could be protective. Support for this is that adult men and women who were breast-fed in infancy had lower serum cholesterol concentrations ( 149 ) or higher HDL-C levels ( 150 ) compared to adults who were not fed breastfed; BMI was also lower in adults that had been breast-fed ( 150 ). Likewise, plasma total cholesterol was significantly higher in adult males that were breast fed for the shortest period of time when compared to those who were breast fed for longer times ( 151 ). In contrast, plasma cholesterol concentrations in children and baboons fed either breast milk or formula had either no difference in plasma cholesterol levels or lower plasma cholesterol levels after being fed formula ( 152 ).
