Fetal and Neonatal Sterol Metabolism
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, pubmed, fetal, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, free article, article, maternal, sterol, levels, synthesis, hdl, lipoproteins


in children and baboons fed either breast milk or formula had either no difference in plasma cholesterol levels or lower plasma cholesterol levels after being fed formula ( 152 ). A review of the literature suggests that the differences in studies were due to studies using exclusive breastmilk versus those using both breast milk and formula ( 153 ), plus other outcomes could be important, including intellect and BMI ( 154 ). Future studies are needed to better characterize the long-term effects of early cholesterol exposure on cholesterol metabolism in later childhood and adulthood. CLINICAL SIGNIFICANCE OF FTAL AND NEWBORN PLASMA CHOLESTEROL CONCENTRATIONS There are a few definitive clinical identifications that can be diagnosed with early life plasma cholesterol concentrations. As discussed earlier, plasma cholesterol levels are lower in the newborn and quite variable, making it difficult to identify infants at risk of becoming hypercholesterolemic, even newborns that are heterozygous for familial hypercholesterolemia ( 155 ). By one year of age, however, plasma levels are more stable and hypercholesterolemia becomes more obvious ( 155 ), taking into account the consumption of cholesterol-containing breastmilk at that time. This might be especially important in infants of women with altered metabolic conditions associated with oxidative stress. The problem is that these cholesterol levels are either not routinely measured or not reported. The plasma sterol concentrations, however, can be used to define various genetic disorders. As discussed previously, there are known defects in the post-squalene cholesterol biosynthetic pathway that result in altered fetal phenotypes [reviewed in ( 50 , 100 - 102 )], each with unique sterol compositions depending on where the defect in the sterol biosynthetic pathway occurs. Thus, these syndromes can be identified by assaying for the specific sterols (see Table 1 ). This is especially useful in the milder phenotypes that might be missed, especially SLOS due to its mild form and higher prevalence. Assays for these dehydrocholesterols must be done by gas chromatography to measure non-cholesterol sterol levels, not the commonly used enzymatic assay which measures sterol levels and not type. Table 1. Disorders of Cholesterol Biosynthesis* View in own window Disease Inheritance Gene Defect Laboratory Findings Phenotype Smith-Lemli-Optiz syndrome AR 7-dehydrocholesterol reductase gene (DHCR7) Elevated 7- dehydrocholesterol (DHC) and 8-DHC levels Characteristic craniofacial appearance (i.e., ptosis, small upturned nose, and micrognathia, cleft palate); microcephaly; limb anomalies (proximally placed thumbs, polydactyly, and 2–3 toe syndactyly); slow growth and poor weight
