Electrocardiogram
KEYWORDS: leads, lead, wave, electrode, ecg, left, heart, electrical, positive, qrs, complex, right, waves, qrs complex, interval


lead. • When a depolarization wavefront (or mean electrical vector) moves perpendicular to a positive electrode, it creates an equiphasic (or isoelectric) complex on the ECG. It will be positive as the depolarization wavefront (or mean electrical vector) approaches (A), and then become negative as it passes by (B). Shown below is the graphic relationship between positive electrodes, depolarization wavefronts (or mean electrical vectors), and complexes displayed on the ECG. Center 3/14 Placement of Leads Electrode label (in the Electrode placement USA) RA On the right arm, avoiding thick muscle. LA In the same location where RA was placed, but on the left arm. RL On the right leg, lateral calf muscle. LL In the same location where RL was placed, but on the left leg. In the fourth intercostal space (between ribs 4 and 5) just to the right of the sternum V 1 (breastbone). V In the fourth intercostal space (between ribs 4 and 5) just to the left of the sternum. 2 V Between leads V and V . 3 2 4 V In the fifth intercostal space (between ribs 5 and 6) in the mid-clavicular line. 4 V Horizontally even with V , in the left anterior axillary line. 5 4 V Horizontally even with V and V in the midaxillary line. 6 4 5 Shown below are diagrams demonstrating proper placement of leads 4/14 • Proper placement of the limb leads. • Proper placement of the precordial leads. Types of Leads Unipolar Vs Biploar Leads There are two types of leads—unipolar and bipolar. The former have an indifferent electrode at the center of the Einthoven’s triangle (which can be likened to a ‘neutral’ of the wall socket) at zero potential. The direction of these leads is from the “center” of the heart radially outward and includes the precordial (chest) leads and limb leads— VL, VR, & VF. The latter, in contrast, have both the electrodes at some potential and the direction of the corresponding electrode is from the electrode at lower potential to the one at higher potential, e.g., in limb lead I, the direction is from left to right. These include the limb leads I, II, and III. Note that the coloring scheme for leads varies by country. Limb Leads Leads I, II and III are the so-called limb leads because at one time, the subjects of electrocardiography had to literally place their arms
