Electrocardiogram
KEYWORDS: leads, lead, wave, electrode, ecg, left, heart, electrical, positive, qrs, complex, right, waves, qrs complex, interval


leads varies by country. Limb Leads Leads I, II and III are the so-called limb leads because at one time, the subjects of electrocardiography had to literally place their arms and legs in buckets of salt water in order to obtain signals for Einthoven's string galvanometer. They form the basis of what is known as Einthoven's triangle.[4] ( Eventually, electrodes were invented that could be placed directly on the patient's skin. Even though the buckets of salt water are no longer necessary, the electrodes are still placed on the patient's arms and legs to approximate the signals obtained with the buckets of salt water. They remain the first three leads of the modern 12 lead ECG. • Lead I is a dipole with the negative (white) electrode on the right arm and the positive (black) electrode on the left arm. • Lead II is a dipole with the negative (white) electrode on the right arm and the positive (red) electrode on the left leg. • Lead III is a dipole with the negative (black) electrode on the left arm and the positive (red) electrode on the left leg. Shown below is an EKG recording in lead I Copyleft image obtained courtesy of ECGpedia, Shown below is an EKG recording in lead II Copyleft image obtained courtesy of ECGpedia, Augmented limb Leads Leads aVR, aVL, and aVF are augmented limb leads. They are derived from the same three electrodes as leads I, II, and III. However, they view the heart from different angles (or vectors) because the negative electrode for these leads is a modification of Wilson's central terminal, which is derived by adding leads I, II, and III together and plugging them into the negative terminal of the EKG machine. This zeroes out the negative electrode and allows the positive electrode to become the "exploring electrode" or a unipolar lead. This is possible because Einthoven's Law states that I + (-II) + III = 0. The equation can also be written I + III = II. It is written this way (instead of I + II + III = 0) because Einthoven reversed the polarity of lead II in 6/14 Einthoven's triangle, possibly because he liked to view upright QRS complexes. Wilson's central terminal paved the way for the development of the augmented limb leads aVR, aVL, aVF and the precordial leads V1, V2, V3, V4, V5, and V6. •
