Electrocardiogram
KEYWORDS: leads, lead, wave, electrode, ecg, left, heart, electrical, positive, qrs, complex, right, waves, qrs complex, interval


is referred to as the transition lead. When the transition occurs earlier than lead V3, it is referred to as an early transition. When it occurs later than lead V3, it is referred to as a late transition. There should also be a gradual increase in the amplitude of the R wave between leads V1 and V4. This is known as R wave progression. Poor R wave progression is a nonspecific finding. It can be caused by conduction abnormalities, myocardial infarction, cardiomyopathy, and other pathological conditions. • Lead V1 is placed in the fourth intercostal space to the right of the sternum. • Lead V2 is placed in the fourth intercostal space to the left of the sternum. • Lead V3 is placed directly between leads V2 and V4. • Lead V4 is placed in the fifth intercostal space in the midclavicular line (even if the apex beat is displaced). • Lead V5 is placed horizontally with V4 in the anterior axillary line • Lead V6 is placed horizontally with V4 and V5 in the midaxillary line. Ground An additional electrode (usually green) is present in modern four-lead and twelve-lead ECGs. This is the ground lead and is placed on the right leg by convention, although in theory it can be placed anywhere on Ctohoeki ebs hoedlpy u. s Wdeliitvher oau rt sherrveicee-sl. eBay dus iEngC oGur, s ewrvhiceesn, yooun aeg redei tpoo oluer uisse ovf iceowokeieds., the remaining lead 7/14 becomes the ground lead by default. Waves and intervals A typical ECG tracing of a normal heartbeat (or cardiac cycle) consists of a P wave, a QRS complex and a T wave. A small U wave is normally visible in 50 to 75% of ECGs. The baseline voltage of the electrocardiogram is known as the isoelectric line. Typically the isoelectric line is measured as the portion of the tracing following the T wave and preceding the next P wave. Rhythm analysis There are some basic rules that can be followed to identify a patient's heart rhythm. What is the rate? Is it regular or irregular? Are P waves present? Are QRS complexes present? Is there a 1:1 relationship Schematic representation of normal ECG between P waves and QRS complexes? Is the PR interval constant? P wave During normal atrial depolarization, the main electrical vector is directed from the SA node towards the AV node, and spreads from the right
