Electrocardiogram
KEYWORDS: leads, lead, wave, electrode, ecg, left, heart, electrical, positive, qrs, complex, right, waves, qrs complex, interval


not always seen. It is typically small, and, by definition, follows the T wave. U waves are thought to represent repolarization of the papillary muscles or Purkinje fibers. Prominent U waves are most often seen in hypokalemia, but may be present in hypercalcemia, thyrotoxicosis, or 10/14 exposure to digitalis, epinephrine, and Class 1A and 3 antiarrhythmics, as well as in congenital long QT syndrome and in the setting of intracranial hemorrhage. An inverted U wave may represent myocardial ischemia or left ventricular volume overload.[10] Clinical lead groups Main article: Myocardial infarction There are twelve leads in total, each recording the electrical activity of the heart from a different perspective, which also correlate to different anatomical areas of the heart for the purpose of identifying acute coronary ischemia or injury. Two leads that look at the same anatomical area of the heart are said to be contiguous (see color coded chart). • The inferior leads (leads II, III and aVF) look at electrical activity from the vantage point of the inferior (or diaphragmatic) wall of the left ventricle. • The lateral leads (I, aVL, V and V ) look at the electrical activity from the vantage point of the 5 6 lateral wall of left ventricle. Because the positive electrode for leads I and aVL are located on the left shoulder, leads I and aVL are sometimes referred to as the high lateral leads. Because the positive electrodes for leads V5 and V6 are on the patient's chest, they are sometimes referred to as the low lateral leads. • The septal leads, V and V look at electrical activity from the vantage point of the septal wall 1 2 of the left ventricle. They are often grouped together with the anterior leads. • The anterior leads, V and V look at electrical activity from the vantage point of the anterior 3 4 wall of the left ventricle. • In addition, any two precordial leads that are next to one another are considered to be contiguous. For example, even though V4 is an anterior lead and V5 is a lateral lead, they are contiguous because they are next to one another. • Lead aVR offers no specific view of the left ventricle. Rather, it views the inside of the endocardial wall from its perspective on the right shoulder. Shown below is a diagram showing the contiguous leads in same color. Axis The
