Electrocardiogram
KEYWORDS: leads, lead, wave, electrode, ecg, left, heart, electrical, positive, qrs, complex, right, waves, qrs complex, interval


Rather, it views the inside of the endocardial wall from its perspective on the right shoulder. Shown below is a diagram showing the contiguous leads in same color. Axis The heart's electrical axis refers to the general direction of the heart's depolarization wavefront (or mean electrical vector) in the frontal plane. It is usually oriented in a right shoulder to left leg direction, which corresponds to the left inferior quadrant of the hexaxial reference system, although -30o to +90o is considered to be normal. • Left axis deviation (-30o to -90o) may indicate left anterior fascicular block or Q waves from inferior MI. 11/14 • Right axis deviation (+90o to +180o) may indicate left posterior fascicular block, Q waves from high lateral MI, or a right ventricular strain pattern. • In the setting of right bundle branch block, right or left axis deviation may indicate bifascicular block. Shown below is a diagram showing how the polarity of the QRS complex in leads I, II, and III can be used to estimate the heart's electrical axis in the frontal plane. Relation of Action Potential to Electrocardiogram Shown below is an image depicting the the phases of action potential to ECG waves. Representation in culture The ECG has become so familiar to the general population that it is part of the logo of many medical organizations, representing the technical side of medicine vs. the Rod of Asclepius or caduceus, which are more traditional. Being an electrical representation, it signifies vitality and urgency. In various television medical dramas, an isoelectric ECG (no cardiac electrical activity, also known as flatline) is often used as a symbol of death or at least extreme medical peril. This is technically known as asystole, a form of cardiac arrest with a particularly bad prognosis. Though sometimes 12/14 shown on television, defibrillation, which can be used to correct arrythmias such as ventricular fibrillation and pulseless ventricular tachycardia, does not correct asystole and is not an indicated therapy. The Digital Imperative Recent regulatory developments have thrust cardiac safety to the forefront of clinical development due to the fact that QT effects of new drugs is now the most common cause of drug withdrawal from the market and delays in or lack of regulatory approval for marketing. The resultant "Digital ECG Imperative for Cardiac Safety" requires innovative strategies on the part of both drug development organizations and ECG services providers. On
