ANTIMICROBIAL AGENTS AND CHEMOTHERAPY, Nov. 1991, p. 2371-2374 Vol. 35, No. 11
KEYWORDS: cefepime, ceftazidime, therapy, study, infections, skin, aeruginosa, subjects, treatment, eradicated, infection, wound, table, days, treated


0066-4804/91/112371-04$02.00/0 Randomized Comparison of Cefepime and Ceftazidime for Treatment of Skin, Surgical Wound, and Complicated Urinary Tract Infections in Hospitalized Subjects LAYNE 0. GENTRY'* AND GUILLERMO RODRIGUEZ-GOMEZ2 ofMedicine, Houston, Texas 77030,1 andHospital Mexico, San Jose, Costa Rica2 Received 25 April 1991/Accepted 11 September 1991 We undertook a prospective, randomized open comparison ofthe broad-spectrum cephalosporins cefepime andceftazidimeintreatmentofhospitalizedsubjectswithskinorwoundinfectionsandcomplicatednosocomial urinary tract infections. Cefepime treatment (dosage, 2.0 g intravenously twice daily for 4 to 28 days) was successful in 36 (90%) of 40 infections of the skin and skin structure or wounds and in 16 (84%) of 19 nosocomial urinary tractinfections. Ceftazidime treatment, 2.0 g every 8 h, was successful in 34 (96%) of36 infections of the skin and skin structure and in 15 (88%) of 17 urinary tract infections. Microbiological eradicationratesofeachagentoverallandforPseudomonasaeruginosaweregreaterthan90%.Inthecefepime group, one death occurred, contributed to by an enterococcal superinfection acquired during study drug therapy, and there were two mild and transient adverse experiences observed. Cefepime was comparable to ceftazidime in treatment of infections of the skin and skin structure requiring hospitalization and of complicated nosocomial urinary tract infections. Cefepime, a novel alpha-methoxyimino aminothiazolyl cially patients with burns, vascular or orthopedic prosthe- cephalosporin, is active in vitro against many gram-positive ses, or possible osteomyelitis). andgram-negative bacteriawhichareresponsibleforserious As originally approved by the Institutional Review Board infections(1, 2). Ofparticularinterestarecompellinginvitro ofBaylorCollege ofMedicine, thisprotocol was designedto data establishing that cefepime is active against Pseudomo- include eligible subjects with pneumonia and/or bacteremia nas aeruginosa (4, 8) and more active than established as well. During the time period ofthis study, however, we broad-spectrum cephalosporins against multiply resistant experienced competition with other departments foreligible strains of the family Enterobacteriaceae. (3, 5-7); these patients with these infections, and thus enrollment was pathogens tend to be overwhelming producers of P-lactam- restricted. ases,forwhich cefepime hasalowaffinityandisresistantto Informed consent was provided. Enrolled subjects pro- hydrolysis. We undertookan open, randomized comparison vided a medical history and were examined. The following ofcefepime and ceftazidime in treatment ofbacterial infec- types of laboratory studies were performed: hematology tions of the skin and skin structures and urinary tract in (hemoglobin, hematocrit, leukocyte count, platelet count, hospitalized subjects. erythrocyte sedimentation rate, prothrombin'time, and par- tialthromboplastintime), serumchemistries (serumglutamic oxalacetic transaminase, serum glutamic pyruvic transami- MATERIALS AND METHPDS nase, total bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, blood ureanitro- Eligible patients for study enrollment included adults gen, creatinine, glucose, sodium, potassium, calcium, and culture-proven infections due tobacteriasusceptible toboth apy, all abscesses were drained and any necessary
