ANTIMICROBIAL AGENTS AND CHEMOTHERAPY, Nov. 1991, p. 2371-2374 Vol. 35, No. 11
KEYWORDS: cefepime, ceftazidime, therapy, study, infections, skin, aeruginosa, subjects, treatment, eradicated, infection, wound, table, days, treated


for ceftazidime, P = 1.0, Fischer's examination. exacttest). Astheceftazidime successrateswereuniformly, TABLE 6. Ceftazidime therapyfailures Treatment Infection status a a n n fs d ubje s c u t b io . n ie t c y t p a lo f c c a a t t i i o o n n Pathogen l ( e a ng s th arta en m d n of Comments (days) treatment Skinorwound 77M Wound E. coli 9 Eradicated Superinfection on day 5 with resistantE. cloacae; successfuldebridement; nofurtherantibiotic treatment 49M Wound E. coli 8 Eradicated Superinfection on day 5 with susceptible Acinetobacter sp. which persisted; successfully treated with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole UTI 56M Urinary tract S. marcescens 11 Eradicated Reinfection 9 days posttreatment with Enterococcus sp.; no furtherantibiotics; died 17 days posttreatment because ofaspiration via tracheo-esophageal fistula 40M Cystitis Klebsiellapneumoniae 13 Relapsed Relapse 9days posttreatment; successfully treated with nitrofurantoin aSubjectdesignations indicatethepatient'sage(inyears)andsex(M, male). 2374 GENTRY AND RODRIGUEZ-GOMEZ ANTIMICROB. AGENTSCHEMOTHER. albeit only slightly, higher, type II error analysis was indi- response wascureinfour(80%) offivetreatedwithcefepime cated. The statistical powers for the observed differences and two oftwo treated with ceftazidime. with this sample size were only 9% for skin or wound infections and 5% for UTIs, the sample sizes needed to DISCUSSION achieve 80% power would have been 1,442 and 2,360 sub- jects, respectively, and the 95% confidence intervals forthe From these results, we have an early confirmation in vivo differences in cure rates forceftazidime and cefepime were, of the results of in vitro and safety studies with cefepime. respectively, -10 and 19%forskin orwound infections and Cefepime is well tolerated and appears to be comparable to -24 and 32% for UTIs. Statistical analysis reveals and ceftazidime in treatment of skin or wound infections and nosocomial UTIs in hospitalized patients. Although ceftazi- predicts no differences in the cure rates of cefepime and dime is more active in vitro against P. aeruginosa than ceftazidime. Both drugs were well tolerated, with only two mild ad- this pathogen were equivalent in this study. Larger studies verse experiences (increased serum creatinine and diarrhea) arerequiredtoconfirmtherelativeefficacies ofcefepimeand inthecefepime groupassessedtobeatleastpossiblyrelated ceftazidime in diabetic subjects with infection due to P. to drug therapy. There were no other clinically significant aeruginosa. changes observed during the study. No subject failed to Cefepime has been shown to have excellent in vitro receive the minimum 4 days ofantibiotic therapy. For three activity against members ofthe family Enterobacteriaceae. subjects in the cefepime group,
