ANTIMICROBIAL AGENTS AND CHEMOTHERAPY, Nov. 1991, p. 2371-2374 Vol. 35, No. 11
KEYWORDS: cefepime, ceftazidime, therapy, study, infections, skin, aeruginosa, subjects, treatment, eradicated, infection, wound, table, days, treated


to Cefepime has been shown to have excellent in vitro receive the minimum 4 days ofantibiotic therapy. For three activity against members ofthe family Enterobacteriaceae. subjects in the cefepime group, the dosage was reduced to Strains ofEnterobacter spp., S. marcescens, and Citrobac- 2.0 g q24h because of impaired renal function, with the terfreundii which may be resistant to other cephalosporins outcome a clinical cure in all three. One subject in the such as ceftazidime and cefotaxime are frequently very ceftazidime group received 2.0 g ql2h and was cured. susceptible to cefepime (3, 5-7). During the course of this Three subjects enrolled in the studyfailedto survivetheir study, one prospective subject was found to have a surgical hospitalization. In the cefepime group, one 85-year-old sub- woundinfectedwith ceftazidime-resistant, cefepime-suscep- jectdied because ofoverwhelming sepsis 2 weeks following tibleEnterobacter cloacae and was compassionately treated the completion ofan unsuccessful regimen of cefepime for for 7 days with cefepime, which effected a cure of the postoperative wound infection due to Proteus mirabilis and infection. This resistant isolate was in a patient from the icated; a superinfection due to a cefepime-resistant Entero- ceftazidime had not been used prior to this study. There is coccusfaecalis strain contributed to the subject's eventual the suggestion that plasmid mediation may not always be death. One 87-year-old patient was enrolled in the ceftazi- responsible for selective resistance to ceftazidime. These dimegroupfor surgicalwoundinfection duetoEnterobacter data are ofgreat interest to us, as the Enterobacter spp. in cloacae, yetentrycultures subsequently grewaceftazidime- our center are usually resistant to available cephalosporins resistant P. aeruginosa; despite appropriate alternative an- such as ceftazidime. We look forward to further studies to tibiotic therapy, this patient died 8 days later because of clarifytheroleofcefepime intreatmentofdifficultinfections aspiration pneumonia. The other death in the ceftazidime due to gram-negative bacteria. group was due to massive intrapulmonary aspiration of gastric contents 17 days following unsuccessful ceftazidime REFERENCES therapy for UTI due to ceftazidime-susceptible Serratia 1. Fuchs, P. C., R. N. Jones, A. L. Barry, et al. 1986. In vitro marcescens. activity of carumonam (RO 17-2301), BMY-28142, aztreonam, For the 40 subjects with skin or wound infections who and ceftazidime against 7620 consecutive clinical bacterial iso- received cefepime, 47 (94%) of 50 pathogens were eradi- lates. Diagn. Microbiol. Infect. Dis. 5:345-349. 2. Fuchs,P.C.,R.N.Jones,A.L.Barry,andC.Thornsberry. 1985. cated, including9of10P. aeruginosa strains;therewere six Evaluation ofthe in vitro activity ofBMY-28142, anew broad- episodes of superinfection or colonization in this group spectrum cephalosporin. Antimicrob.
