Hindawi
KEYWORDS: abscess, liver, case, surgery, control, blood, alive, figure, drainage, hkp, dic, sepsis, lateral, hepatic, formation


Hindawi Case Reports in Surgery Volume 2022, Article ID 6019866, 5 pages Case Report Klebsiella A Case of Hypermucoviscosity Phenotype of pneumoniae Liver Abscess Saved by Damage Control Strategy Keita Sato , Koji Takahashi, and Tsukasa Kusuta DepartmentofSurgery,IseRedCrossHospital,Japan CorrespondenceshouldbeaddressedtoKeitaSato; Received 30 April 2022; Accepted 15 September 2022; Published 2(cid:26) September 2022 AcademicEditor:ChristophorosForoulis whichpermitsunrestricteduse,distribution,andreproductioninanymedium,providedtheoriginalworkisproperlycited. Liver abscess caused by the Hypermucoviscosity phenotype of Klebsiella pneumoniae (HKp) is characterized by high tissue invasiveness and multiple systemic infections. This leads to sepsis, multiple organ failure, and coagulopathy. An 80 year old man came to our hospital with a complaint of malaise and went into hemorrhagic shock after percutaneous transhepatic drainage of a liver abscess caused by HKp. An emergency laparotomy was performed, but the patient suffered from severe coagulopathy and underwent damage control surgery. HKp liver abscesses must be operated on in the presence of multiple organ failure and disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) complications when medical treatment is refractory. In these situations, a two-stage damage control strategy should be considered: hemostasis and infection control at the initial surgery andhepaticresection. 1. Introduction marked sweating. There was mild tenderness in the upper abdomen.LaboratoryexaminationshowedWhiteBloodCell Hypermucoviscosity phenotype of Klebsiella pneumoniae (WBC) was 8,500/μl and C reactive protein (CRP) was (HKp)infectionis highlytissue invasive andcan easilylead 26.7ng/dl. CT on arrival (Figure 1) revealed a multifocal to sepsis, multiple organ damage, and DIC . HKp infec- lesion(46mm × 52mm)inthelateralareaoftheliverwith tion has been reported since the 1980s mainly in East Asia, a contrast effect on the margins. Klebsiella pneumoniae was including Taiwan and South Korea, and rarely in Japan. In detected in the blood culture collected at the time of this case, we applied a life-saving trauma control strategy admission. (damage control surgery: DCS) to hemostasis and two- On the day after admission, his temperature was 40 stage radical resection of a liver abscess with sepsis and degrees Celsius, heart rate 120 b.p.m, blood pressure 110/ coagulopathy. 58mmHg, respiratory rate more than 40 breaths/min, SpO288%(10l/minO byreservoirfacemask),andgeneral 2. Case Report conditiondeteriorated.Bloodexaminationshowedaplatelet count of 50,000/μl, CRP was 26.7ng/dl, creatinine was The patient was an 80 year old man with a history of pros- 1.39mg/dl, T-Bil was 2.9mg/dl, PT% was 54%, PT-INR tatecancer(atage77)andhypertension.Hehadnohistory was 1.42, and an acute DIC score was 8 (Figure 2). Based ofdiabetesmellitus,nooralmedication,andonlyoccasional on the results of the string test for Klebsiella pneumoniae, gradualworseningofweaknessthathadpersistedforseveral diagnosed. Abscess drainage was performed to control the days.Onarrival,hisconsciousnesswasclear,bloodpressure infection. A 7.2 Fr pigtail catheter was inserted into
