Hindawi
KEYWORDS: abscess, liver, case, surgery, control, blood, alive, figure, drainage, hkp, dic, sepsis, lateral, hepatic, formation


Subcapsular hematoma formation of 9:5×2:2×13cm(arrowhead)wasobservedinthelateralareaofthe computedtomography(b)afterpercutaneoustranshepaticabscess liver. Arrows indicate abscess formation of 4:0×3:0×6:0cm in the drainage(PTAD).Extravasationofcontrastmediaandhematoma liverlobe. wasobservedaroundtheliverandspleen(b,arrowhead). (Figure 5(a), arrow) was found near the hepatic parenchy- mal margins. There was an abscess formation near the bile duct (Figure 5(b)), and HKp was also detected in this culture. Hispostoperativecoursewasgood,andhisgeneralcon- ditionandcoagulopathyimprovedonthefourthpostopera- tive day. He also had right endophthalmitis by HKp, underwent vitrectomy, and was transferred to another hos- pital on postoperative day 30. 3. Discussion Antimicrobialagentsandpercutaneoustranshepaticabscess drainage are the mainstay of treatment for bacterial liver abscesses. However, in cases of hyperviscosity, poor drain- age, or poor infection control, a surgical approach may be chosen. Figure 4: Operative findings. The sutured part (arrow) of lateral In this case, the contrast-enhanced CT findings on hepatic segment was completely free of active bleeding by gauze admissionrevealedamultifocalabscesswithsepta.However, packing. only antimicrobial therapy was administered because it was judged that the drainage would be ineffective due to the simply closed and the patient was returned to the intensive smallspace of each abscess. However, his general condition careunit.Theoperationtimewas70minutes,andtheblood deteriorated and he developed DIC due to sepsis. During loss was more than 2000ml. the drainage procedure, the lateral hepatic area ruptured Although theanemia andcoagulopathyimproved,HKp andhewentintohemorrhagicshock.Atthetimeofthelap- was detected again in the blood culture collected after the arotomy, the patient tended to severe coagulopathy, requir- surgery. Therefore, we decided to perform a lateral hepatic ing massive intraoperative blood transfusion and resection along withdepackingof gauzes. catecholamine administration, so we made the decision to The suture closure of the laceration in the lateral area perform DCS. was completely hemostatic with packing (Figure 4, Although there are some case reports of surgical resec- arrow). Lateral hepatectomy was performed under total tionofliverabscessescausedbyHKp,itisahighrisktoper- hepatic blood flow cutoff. There was a very fragile area form liver resection under severe systemic conditions. In in the detached section of the liver, and white pus dis- Japan,therewere8casereportsofhepaticresectionforliver charge was observed from the same area. The operation abscess caused by Klebsiella pneumoniae with sepsis ([2–8], time was 4 hours and the amount of blood loss was Table 1). The mean age of the patients was 78.3 years (41- 500ml. 84years).Diabetesmellitusandheavyalcoholconsumption Following histopathological examination, a 9:5×2:2× havebeenpointedoutasbackgrounddiseaserisks.How- 13cmsubcapsularhematomaformation(Figure5(a),arrow- ever,inthese8cases,therewasonecaseofdiabetesmellitus head)wasfoundontheposterioraspectofthelateralareaof , and four cases had no history of diabetes mellitus [4, the liver. A 4:0×3:0×6:0cm geographic abscess formation 6–8]. Four cases [3–6] had multiple foci of infection such 4 Case Reports in Surgery Table1:PreviouslyreportedcasesofhepatectomyforliverabscessandseveresepsiscausedbyhypermucoviscosityKlebsiellapneumoniae inJapan. Case Author Age Sex Medicalhistory Comorbidity Operation
