Chapter
KEYWORDS: stoves, fuel, improved, household, energy, use, countries, percent, pollution, air, fuels, exposure, biomass, health, rural


Indoor Air Pollution Nigel Bruce, Eva Rehfuess, Sumi Mehta, Guy Hutton, andKirkSmith Access to modern energy sources has been described as a energy ladder, carrying out more activities with fuels and “necessary,although not sufficient,requirement for economic appliances that are increasingly efficient,clean,convenient,and and social development”. It is, therefore, of great more expensive. The pace of progress, however, is extremely concern that almost half the world’s population still relies for slow, and for the poorest people in Sub-Saharan Africa and its everyday household energy needs on inefficient and highly South Asia,there is little prospect ofchange. polluting solid fuels,mostly biomass (wood,animal dung,and Illustrated in figures 42.1 and 42.2 are findings for Malawi The majority of households using solid fuels burn them in (ORC Macro 2004).The examples are selected from available open fires or simple stoves that release most ofthe smoke into national studies with data on main cooking fuel use to repre- the home.The resulting indoor air pollution (IAP) is a major sent the situation in poor African and South American coun- who may spend many hours close to the fire. Furthermore, figures 42.1a and 42.2a; the findings are then broken down the reliance on solid fuels and inefficient stoves has other, nationally by level of education of the principal respondent economic development. urban areas by her level ofeducation in figures 42.1c and 42.2c. Biomass is predominantly, though not exclusively, a rural fuel: indeed, in many poor African countries, biomass is the NATURE, CAUSES, AND BURDEN OF CONDITION main fuel for close to 100 percent of rural homes. Marked socioeconomic differences (indicated by women’s education) About 3 billion people still rely on solid fuels, 2.4 billion on exist in both urban and rural areas.During the 1990s,use of biomass, and the rest on coal, mostly in China (IEA 2002; traditional fuels (biomass) in Sub-Saharan Africa increased as Smith,Mehta,and Feuz 2004).There is marked regional varia- a percentage of total energy use,although in most other parts tion in solid fuel use,from less than 20 percent in Europe and of the world the trend has generally been the reverse (World Central Asia to 80 percent and more in Sub-Saharan Africa and Bank 2002). South Asia. In many poorer countries,the increase in total energy use This issue is inextricably linked to poverty. It is the poor accompanying economic development has occurred mainly consequences contribute to keeping them in poverty,and their increase in biomass use probably reflects population growth
