Chapter
KEYWORDS: stoves, fuel, improved, household, energy, use, countries, percent, pollution, air, fuels, exposure, biomass, health, rural


recently been carried out and others 2002,2004). (Smith, Mehta, and Feuz 2004; see table 42.1). This review Saksena,Thompson,andSmith(2004)haverecentlycom- identified three main outcomes with sufficient evidence to piled data on several of the main pollutants associated with include in the burden-of-disease calculations and a range of varioushouseholdfuelsfromstudiesofhomesinawiderange other outcomes with as yet insufficient evidence. of developing countries. Concentrations of PM , averaged Studies for the key outcomes used in the burden-of-disease over24-hourperiods,wereintherange300to3,000(ormore) calculations—acute lower respiratory infection (ALRI), micrograms per cubic meter ((cid:1)g/m3). Annual averages have chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and lung not been measured, but because these levels are experienced cancer—had to be primary studies (not reviews or reanalyses), almost every day of the year,the 24-hour concentrations can written or abstracted in English (and for lung cancer,Chinese), be taken as a reasonable estimate. By comparison, the U.S. that reported an odds ratio and variance (or sufficient data to EnvironmentalProtectionAgency’sannualairpollutionstan- estimate them) and provided some proxy for exposure to dard for PM is 50 (cid:1)g/m3, one to two orders of magnitude indoor smoke from the use ofsolid fuels for cooking and heat- lowerthanlevelsseeninmanyhomesindevelopingcountries. ing purposes. Duringcooking,whenwomenandveryyoungchildrenspend A limitation ofalmost all studies has been the lack ofmeas- mosttimeinthekitchenandnearthefire,muchhigherlevels urement of pollution or exposure: instead, proxy measures of PM have been recorded—up to 30,000 (cid:1)g/m3 or more. have been used,including the type of fuel or stove used,time With use of biomass, CO levels are generally not as high in spent near the fire, and whether the child is carried on the Organization (WHO) guideline level of 10 ppm for an eight- recent study from Kenya has gone some way to addressing this hourperiodofexposure.MuchhigherlevelsofCOhavebeen omission (Ezzati and Kammen 2001). recorded,however.Forexample,a24-houraverageof around In some countries, household fuels carry locally specific 50ppmwasfoundinKenyanMasaihomes(Bruceandothers risks.Ithasbeenestimatedthatmorethan2millionpeoplein 2002),andoneIndianstudyreportedcarboxyhemoglobinlev- Chinasufferfromskeletalfluorosis,inpartresultingfromuse elssimilartothoseforactivecigarettesmokers(Behera,Dash, offluoride-richcoal(Andoandothers1998).Arsenic,another young children and pregnant women to levels of CO just lung cancer in China (Finkelman, Belkin, and Zheng 1999). below current WHO guidelines have yet to be studied. There has been concern,however,that reducing smoke could For additional information on levels of other pollutants in increase risk of vectorborne disease, including malaria. Some Indoor Air Pollution | 795 Table 42.1 Status of Evidence Linking Biomass Fuels and Coal with Child and Adult Health Outcomes Health outcome Age Status of evidence Sufficient evidence for burden-of-disease calculation Acute lower respiratory infections Children (cid:3)5 years Strong. Some 15–20 observational studies for each condition, from developing countries. Evidence is consistent (significantly elevated risk in
