Chapter
KEYWORDS: stoves, fuel, improved, household, energy, use, countries, percent, pollution, air, fuels, exposure, biomass, health, rural


Sufficient evidence for burden-of-disease calculation Acute lower respiratory infections Children (cid:3)5 years Strong. Some 15–20 observational studies for each condition, from developing countries. Evidence is consistent (significantly elevated risk in most though not all Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease Adult women studies); the effects are sizable, plausible, and supported by evidence from outdoor Lung cancer (coal exposure) Adult women air pollution and smoking. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease Adult men Moderate-I.Smaller number of studies, but consistent and plausible. Lung cancer (coal exposure) Adult men Not yet sufficient evidence for burden-of-disease calculation Lung cancer (biomass exposure) Adult women Moderate-II.Small number of studies, not all consistent (especially for asthma, which may reflect variations in definitions and condition by age), but supported by Tuberculosis Adult studies of outdoor air pollution, smoking, and laboratory animals. Asthma Child and adult Cataracts Adult Adverse pregnancy outcomes Perinatal Tentative.Adverse pregnancy outcomes include low birthweight and increased perinatal mortality. One or a few studies at most for each of these conditions, not Cancer of upper aerodigestive tract Adult all consistent, but some support from outdoor air pollution and passive-smoking Interstitial lung disease Adult studies. Ischemic heart disease Adult Several studies from developed countries have shown increased risk for exposure to outdoor air pollution at much lower levels than IAP levels seen in developing countries. As yet, no studies from developing countries. Source:Smith, Mehta, and Feuz 2004. studieshaveshownthatbiomasssmokecanrepelmosquitoes countrieswitha1999percapitagrossnationalproduct(GNP) and reduce biting rates (Palsson and Jaenson 1999; Paru and greater than US$5,000 had made a complete transition either others1995;Vernede,vanMeer,andAlpers1994).Fewstudies to electricity or cleaner liquid and gaseous fuels or to fully haveexaminedtheimpactof smokeonmalariatransmission: ventilated solid fuel devices. To account for differences in onefromsouthernMexicofoundnoprotectiveeffectofsmoke exposure caused by variation in the quality of stoves, they (adjusted odds ratio 1.06 [0.72–1.58]; Danis-Lozano and appliedaventilationfactor(VF),setfrom1fornoventilation others1999),andanotherfromTheGambiafoundthatwood to0forcompleteventilation.InChina,aVFof 0.25wasused smokedidnotprotectchildreninareasofmoderatetransmis- forchildhealthoutcomesand0.5foradultoutcomes,reflect- sion(Snowandothers1987). ing a period of higher exposure (to open fires) before the widespread introduction of chimney stoves.Countries with a 1999 GNP per capita greater than US$5,000 were assigned a Method Used for Determining Attributable Disease Burden VFof0,andallothercountriesavalueof1,reflectingthevery low rates of use of clean fuels or effective ventilation tech- Smith,Mehta,and Feuz (2004) have provided a full explana- nologies. The authors obtained the final point estimate for tion of the calculation of the disease burden associated with exposurebymultiplyingthepercentageofsolidfuelusebythe IAP.Summarized here are the methods they used to estimate VF.Theyarbitrarilyassignedanuncertaintyrangeof (cid:2)5per- the two most critical components of these calculations: the centtotheestimates. number ofpeople exposed and the relative risks. Exposure. The
