Chapter
KEYWORDS: stoves, fuel, improved, household, energy, use, countries, percent, pollution, air, fuels, exposure, biomass, health, rural


IAP.Summarized here are the methods they used to estimate VF.Theyarbitrarilyassignedanuncertaintyrangeof (cid:2)5per- the two most critical components of these calculations: the centtotheestimates. number ofpeople exposed and the relative risks. Exposure. The absence of pollution or exposure measure- Risk. Smith, Mehta, and Feuz (2004) carried out meta- ment in health studies required use of a binary classification: analyses for the three health outcomes with sufficient evidence the use or nonuse of solid fuels. The authors obtained esti- (table 42.2). They used fixed-effects models and sensitivity mates of solid fuel use for 52 countries from a range of analysis that took account of potential sources of heterogene- sources, mostly household surveys, and statistical modeling ity, including the way in which exposure was defined and was used for countries with no data (the majority) (Smith, whether adjustment had been made for confounders (Smith, Mehta,andFeuz2004).Theyassumed,conservatively,thatall Mehta,and Feuz 2004). 796 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Nigel Bruce, Eva Rehfuess, Sumi Mehta, and others Table42.2 Summary of Relative Risk Estimates for Health ages count less than years lost in the prime of adult life.Age Outcomes Used in Burden-of-Disease Estimates weighting makes little difference to the DALYs lost per death up toagefive;howmuchitaffectstheDALYcostof adultdeaths 95 percent dependsontheagedistributionofdeathsfromCOPD.Because Health Age and Number of Relative confidence thesearelikelytooccuratage45orbeyond,theDALYlossesare outcome sex group studies risk interval underestimatedcomparedwithestimateswithoutageweight- ALRI Children (cid:3)5 years 8 2.3 1.9–2.7 ingthatfollowtheusualpracticeinthisvolume. COPD Women (cid:4)30 years 8 3.2 2.3–4.8 Men (cid:4)30 yearsa 2 1.8 1.0–3.2 Lung cancer Women (cid:4)30 years 9 1.9 1.1–3.5 Other Effects of Household Energy Use (coal) Men (cid:4)30 years 3 1.5 1.0–2.5 in Developing Countries a. Because of the limited quantity and quality of available evidence, the male COPD relative risk open fires—were not assessed because the burden-of-disease and range have been fixed to include 1.0 (no effect) as the lower estimate. assessment process allowed inclusion of only those health effects resulting directly from pollution.Children are at risk of burns and scalds, resulting from falling into open fires and The Burden of Disease from Solid Fuel Use knocking over pots ofhot liquid (Courtright,Haile,and Kohls Information on the proportions exposed and risk ofkey disease 1993;Onuba and Udoidiok 1987).Modern fuels are not always outcomes was combined with total burden-of-disease data to safe either, because children are also at risk of drinking obtain the population attributable fractions associated with kerosene,which is often stored in soft drink bottles (Gupta and IAP . Globally, solid fuels were estimated to
