Chapter
KEYWORDS: stoves, fuel, improved, household, energy, use, countries, percent, pollution, air, fuels, exposure, biomass, health, rural


also at risk of drinking obtain the population attributable fractions associated with kerosene,which is often stored in soft drink bottles (Gupta and IAP . Globally, solid fuels were estimated to others 1998;Reed and Conradie 1997;Yach 1994). account for 1.6 million excess deaths annually and 2.7 percent Families—mainly the women and children—can spend ofdisability-adjusted life years (DALYs) lost,making them the many hours each week collecting biomass fuels, particularly second most important environmental cause of disease, after where environmental damage and overpopulation have made contaminated water, lack of sanitation, and poor hygiene them scarce. This time could be spent more productively on (table42.3).Approximately 32 percent ofthis burden (DALYs) child care and household or income-generating tasks.There are 18percent in East Asia and the Pacific.In developing countries mines, snake bites, and violence . with high child and adult mortality,solid fuel use is the fourth Inefficient stoves waste fuel,draining disposable income iffuel most important risk factor behind malnutrition, unsafe sex, is bought.Although women carry out most of the household and lack ofwater and sanitation,and it is estimated to account activities requiring fuels,they often have limited control over for 3.7 percent ofDALYs lost . how resources can be spent to change the situation (Clancy, Overall,there are more female deaths but similar numbers Skutsch, and Batchelor 2003). These conditions can combine of male and female DALYs (table 42.3b). The reason can be torestrict income generation from home-based activities that DALYs from ALRI in children under five years of age are food for sale). slightly greater for males (table 42.3c). Women experience Homes that are heavily polluted and dark can hinder pro- twice the DALYs and three times the deaths from COPD (male ductivityofhouseholders,includingchildrendoinghomework smoking-attributable COPD deaths excluded).Far fewer cases andothersengagedinhome-basedincome-generatingactivities of lung cancer are attributable to IAP,but women experience such as handicrafts.In many poor homes,lighting is obtained about three times the burden ofmen. from the open fire and simple kerosene wick lamps,which pro- Table 42.3 alsoshows how the poorest regions ofthe world vide poor light and add to pollution. carry by far the greatest burden, particularly for ALRI. More Solid fuel use has important environmental consequences. than halfofall the deaths and 83 percent ofDALYs lost attrib- Domestic use of solid fuels in high-density rural and urban utable to solid fuel use occur as a result of ALRI in children environmentscontributestooutdoorairpollution.Manylow- under five years of age.In high-mortality areas,such as Sub- incomeurbanpopulationsrelyoncharcoal,theproductionof Saharan Africa, these estimates indicate that approximately
