Chapter
KEYWORDS: stoves, fuel, improved, household, energy, use, countries, percent, pollution, air, fuels, exposure, biomass, health, rural


changes useof cleanerandmoreefficientenergytechnologiesbypop- to user behaviors(table 42.4). ulationsthatareamongthepoorestintheworldhasnotbeen It should not be assumed that an intervention that reduces easy, but recent years have seen progress being made with IAP will necessarily achieve other aims listed previously. For respect to suitable technology that meets the needs of house- example, in colder areas, an enclosed stove with a flue that holds and with respect to the development of supportive reduces IAP may reduce radiant heat and light,forcing house- policy. holds to use other fuels for those purposes. If not addressed with households,such problems may well result in disappoint- Poverty Reduction and the Millennium Development Goals ing reductions in IAP exposure,poor acceptance of interven- tions,and lack ofmotivation to maintain them. Given the close relationship between socioeconomic condi- tions and solid fuel use,poverty reduction must be a key ele- ment of policy to alleviate IAP. The United Nations Policy Instruments Millennium Development Goals set targets for poverty eradi- Although a range ofinterventions is available,poor households face many barriers to their adoption, and enabling policy is mentalprotection;theyrepresenttheacceptedframeworkfor needed (table 42.5).This area ofpractice is complex and evolv- theworldcommunitytoachievemeasurableprogress(United ing,often requiring solutions that are highly setting specific. Nations Statistics Division 2003). Although reducing IAP cancontributetoachievinganumberof thesegoals,itispar- ticularly relevant to reducing child mortality (Goal 4) from ALRI. INTERVENTION COSTS AND EFFECTIVENESS Goal 7, Target 9, aims at integrating sustainable develop- ment into country policies and programs. The proportion of The cost-effectiveness analysis discussed in this chapter is based population using solid fuels has been adopted as an indicator on recent work by Mehta and Shahpar (2004).The key compo- for Target 9.Alleviating drudgery resulting from collecting fuel nents of this analysis are described here, with particular and using inefficient stoves,together with the involvement of emphasis on the underlying assumptions. Indoor Air Pollution | 799 Table 42.4 Interventions for Reducing Exposure to IAP Source of pollution Living environment User behaviors Improved cooking devices Improved ventilation Reduced exposure through operation of source • Improved biomass stoves without flues • Hoods, fireplaces, and chimneys built into the • Fuel drying structure of the house • Improved stoves with flues attached • Using pot lids to conserve heat Alternative fuel-cooker combinations • Windows and ventilation holes (such as in • Properly maintaining stoves and chimneys and roof), which may have cowls to assist other appliances • Briquettes and pellets extraction Reductions by avoiding smoke • Charcoal Kitchen design and placement of the stove
