Chapter
KEYWORDS: stoves, fuel, improved, household, energy, use, countries, percent, pollution, air, fuels, exposure, biomass, health, rural


and chimneys and roof), which may have cowls to assist other appliances • Briquettes and pellets extraction Reductions by avoiding smoke • Charcoal Kitchen design and placement of the stove • Kerosene • Keeping children away from smoke—for • Kitchen separate from house to reduce example, in another room (if available and safe • Liquid petroleum gas exposure of family (less so for cook) to do so) • Biogas, producer gas • Stove at waist height to reduce direct exposure • Solar cookers (thermal) of cook leaning over fire • Other low-smoke fuels • Electricity Reduced need for the fire • Insulated fireless cooker (haybox) • Efficient housing design and construction • Solar water heating Source:Modified from Ballard-Tremeer and Mathee 2000. Table 42.5 Policy Instruments for Promoting Implementation of Effective Household Energy Interventions Policy instruments Examples Applications Media Localandnationalradio,television,andnewspaperscanbeusedtoraiseawarenessanddisseminate informationontechnologiesandopportunitiestosupportimplementation,suchaspromotionsandmicrocredit. Thesemediacanbedirectedatarangeofaudiences,includingdecisionmakers,professionals,andthepublic whereradioiswidelyused. Community education Opportunities such as adult literacy programs can be used to raise awareness and share experience of interventions, and innovative methods can be used (for example theater). Taxes and subsidies Tax on fuels and Reduced tax on fuels and appliances may promote development of distribution networks and uptake, and it Subsidy on fuels and General(forexample,national)subsidiesonfuelssuchaskerosenehavebeenappliedtopromoteusebypoor appliances households.Subsidieshavebeenfoundtobeinefficientinstruments,however,oftenbenefitingthebetteroff ratherthanthepoor.Time-limitedsubsidyonspecificproducts(forexample,cleanfuelappliances,connection togrid)maybeausefulmethodforpromotinginitialuptake,generatingdemand,andtherebyproviding marketconditionsforlowerpricesandmoreconsistentquality. Regulation and Air quality standards Although some developing countries have air quality standards for urban air, none have them for indoor air in legislation settings where solid fuels are widely used. Routine monitoring and enforcement is not practical, but it may be useful to set standards and targets linked to specific assessments. For more routine use, information from censuses and surveys, such as fuel type, stove type, and venting for smoke, offers a practical alternative for setting air quality standards for IAP in developing countries. Design standards for Design standards can be applied to safety (prevention of burns, gas leaks, and explosions); venting of appliances emissions; and efficiency. Although such standards may be difficult to enforce in an informal economy, they could become valuable with wider-scale production. Direct expenditures Public program Large-scale public provision of appliances, such as improved stoves or clean-fuel appliances, has generally provision of appliances been found unsuitable. Some form of targeted provision or partial subsidy where households have made informed choices and commit to cost sharing may be useful to stimulate demand and act in favor of equity. 800 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Nigel Bruce, Eva Rehfuess, Sumi Mehta,
