Chapter
KEYWORDS: stoves, fuel, improved, household, energy, use, countries, percent, pollution, air, fuels, exposure, biomass, health, rural


to cost sharing may be useful to stimulate demand and act in favor of equity. 800 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Nigel Bruce, Eva Rehfuess, Sumi Mehta, and others Table 42.5 Continued Policy instruments Examples Applications Funding of finance Experience has shown that credit is most likely to be made available and adopted for energy applications schemes that contribute directly to productive, income-generating activities (such as food processing for sale). Meeting everyday cooking and space-heating needs is seen as a lower priority. Good opportunities may exist where biomass fuel is purchased and where cost saving combines with other valued benefits, such as increased prestige and cleaner kitchens. Support for such schemes, mainly in the form of raising awareness, skills training in managing funds, and seed funding (the main source of funds being from users) may be cost-effective. development knowledge of and confidence in credit schemes, and the like are important for planning interventions. Development and Evaluation of interventions should be conducted in a range of settings, using harmonized methods, if evaluation of possible, that allow local flexibility but permit comparison with other types of interventions and other interventions locations. which evidence is currently tentative. Research capacity Capacity for carrying out a wide range of research—from national and local surveys, to monitoring and where the problems associated with household energy and IAP are most pressing. Source:Authors. Costs Experience indicates that successful interventions are sustain- Intervention costs have a number of components,the relative able in local markets, implying that the consumer pays the importance ofwhich will vary with the type offuel and device majority of initial and recurrent costs. The contributions of (box 42.1). the government, utilities, nongovernmental organizations The level ofcosts incurred by consumers and others,includ- (NGOs),and the commercial sector will depend on many fac- ing government,depends not only on the type ofintervention tors, including the type of intervention and fuel, location but also on how it is delivered, supplied, and adopted. (urban or rural), existing level of supply and distribution Box 42.1 Cost Components for Household Energy Interventions • Fuels,whichvaryfromzero(indirectcashterms,though • Additional appliances—for example, an LPG storage not in opportunity cost) for collected biomass to a bottle has a moderately high initial cost but should last U.S. dollar or so per week for kerosene and several for many years. U.S. dollars per week for electricity (where used for • Maintenancecosts,whichvaryfromzeroforathree-stone cooking). fireuptomodest,butnotnegligible,costsof repairing • Stove appliances, which
