Chapter
KEYWORDS: stoves, fuel, improved, household, energy, use, countries, percent, pollution, air, fuels, exposure, biomass, health, rural


dollar or so per week for kerosene and several for many years. U.S. dollars per week for electricity (where used for • Maintenancecosts,whichvaryfromzeroforathree-stone cooking). fireuptomodest,butnotnegligible,costsof repairing • Stove appliances, which vary from zero for a simple (andperiodicallyreplacing)woodstovesandchimneys. three-stone fire (stones arranged on the floor to sup- Appliancesforusingkerosene,LPG,andelectricityalso port cooking pots, with the fire lit between the requiremaintenanceandperiodicreplacement. stones), to US$50 (and in some cases more than • Program costs, which apply to various aspects of US$100) for a good-quality woodstove with a chim- provision ofenergy services,particularly LPG and elec- ney and up to several hundred U.S. dollars for a bio- tricity, but may also include costs of, for example, gas installation. establishing more sustainable biomass reserves and administrative costs. Source:Authors. Indoor Air Pollution | 801 Box 42.2 Cost Issues in Switching to Cleaner Fuels for a “Typical” Poor Kenyan Family Ruth1and her family live 3 kilometers from a small town have been able to find the money to buy the gas bottle and on the main road about one hour by bus from Kisumu. cooker. They are subsistence farmers, with a small income from She talks with her husband about LPG, and although selling vegetables,from irregular laboring work obtained quite supportive,her husband thinks they cannot afford it. by her husband,and from making and selling handicrafts. They could spend a little more on fuel, but income is Ruth,a mother offive,cooks over a three-stone fire using irregular.Why abandon free fuel when they are so poor? mostly wood, which she collects every other day from Ruth thinks she could earn more money from her handi- plots up to two hours walking distance from home. She crafts in the time she saves collecting wood.On balance, spends 8 to 12 hours each week collecting wood.Ruth and they reckon they could probably afford the cost ofthe gas wick lamps and for cooking.They use dry cell batteries for not know where they could find the money to pay for the the radio; grid electricity runs nearby, but connection is cooker and bottle. far too expensive.In all,the family spends an equivalent of Ruth then learns about a revolving fund set up by her US$1 to US$2 per week on fuel and batteries. women’s group with the help ofan NGO.Ifshe can make Through her women’s group, Ruth hears that a few small regular payments,she and her husband could get a families are using LPG, now available at a nearby
