Chapter
KEYWORDS: stoves, fuel, improved, household, energy, use, countries, percent, pollution, air, fuels, exposure, biomass, health, rural


NGO.Ifshe can make Through her women’s group, Ruth hears that a few small regular payments,she and her husband could get a families are using LPG, now available at a nearby petrol loan to buy the stove and gas bottle next year. But they station. The women say it is very quick and easy to use, have never saved before,and what ifthey need money for and it keeps pots,clothes,and walls clean.The women and medicines or for the children at school? Will they be able children seem to feel better,with less cough,runny eyes, to keep saving each week to make sure they have enough and headaches. But those families run small shops and to refill the gas bottle when needed? 1. Not her real name. Source:Authors. networks,and support for credit (for example,seed funds and Box 42.2 illustrates how these various issues can influence the fund capital) and targeted subsidies. decisions ofa “typical”poor rural African household consider- Some degree of market support may be required to stimu- ing transition from gathered biomass to predominant use ofa late demand and to encourage adoption by poor households, commercial fuel (LPG). particularly those using three-stone fires (and other simple Effectiveness incur direct monetary costs.Some countries have applied sub- sidies on fuels such as kerosene to assist poor families, but Most evidence available for assessing intervention effectiveness general subsidies are now considered to be an inefficient instru- deals with the effect on IAP levels and in some cases personal ment for this purpose (von Schirnding and others 2002). exposure. No experimentally derived evidence is available, Targeted subsidy and small-scale credit may be more appropri- however,on the effect of reducing IAP exposure on incidence ate ways of helping poor families acquire new household ofALRI or the course of COPD in adults.A randomized trial energy technologies and can have low default rates.Experience of an improved chimney stove is currently under way in shows,however,that households are more likely to access cred- Guatemala,focusing on ALRI in children up to 18 months of it for directly productive (with regard to income) uses of age . A cohort study in Kenya by Ezzati and energy, rather than for everyday cooking and space-heating Kammen (2001) describes significant exposure-response rela- needs.Because the latter are the most important sources ofIAP, tionships for all acute respiratory infections—and for ALRI more promotion ofother benefits is needed,such as improved specifically—associated with the use of traditional and and reduced need
