Chapter
KEYWORDS: stoves, fuel, improved, household, energy, use, countries, percent, pollution, air, fuels, exposure, biomass, health, rural


most important sources ofIAP, tionships for all acute respiratory infections—and for ALRI more promotion ofother benefits is needed,such as improved specifically—associated with the use of traditional and and reduced need for biomass; greater prestige; and cleaner mates require confirmation because the study has small num- homes,clothes,and utensils.A number of these benefits may bersofchildren(93childrenunderagefive,livingin55homes). 802 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Nigel Bruce, Eva Rehfuess, Sumi Mehta, and others others (2002) reported adjusted hazard ratios of 0.59 (95per- Personal exposures were usually found to have been reduced cent confidence interval:0.49 to 0.71) for men and 0.54 (0.44 proportionately less than area pollution levels.For example,in to 0.65) for women using improved coal stoves compared with Kenya,where hoods with flues achieved a 75 percent reduction traditional open coal fires in a 16-year retrospective cohort in 24-hour mean kitchen PM and CO, the woman’s mean 3.5 study in rural China. 24-hour CO exposure was reduced by only 35 percent (Bruce Measuring evidence on reductions in pollution and expo- and others 2002). Similar results were found for child expo- sure is nonetheless an important step in assessing effectiveness. sures in a study ofimproved wood stoves in Guatemala (Bruce Summarized here are the main findings of studies that have and others 2004).We are aware ofonly one study that has used measured pollution levels in homes using traditional open direct measurement of personal particulate exposure in very fires, various improved stoves, kerosene, and LPG (see also young children (Naeher,Leaderer,and Smith 2000).This study, Saksena,Thompson,and Smith 2004) and one that examined also in Guatemala, reported mean 10- to 12-hour (daytime) the effect of rural electrification in South Africa (Rollin and PM levels for children under 15 months ofage of279 (cid:1)g/m3 2.5 others 2004). ((cid:5)SD of19.5) for the open fire and 170 (cid:1)g/m3((cid:5)154) for the planchastoves,a 40 percent reduction. Effect of Improved Stoves. In East Africa, cheap improved stoves without flues,burning either wood or charcoal,are pop- ImpactofCleanerFuels. Goodevidenceshowsthatkerosene ular.These wood-burning stoves can reduce kitchen pollution andLPGcandelivermuchlowerlevelsofpollution,althoughit by up to 50 percent, but levels still remain high (Ezzati, isimportanttodeterminetheextenttowhichthecleanerfuel Mbinda, and Kammen 2000). Charcoal emits much less PM is substituting for biomass. For example, a study in rural (but with a higher CO-to-PM ratio than wood), and stoves GuatemalacomparingLPGwithopenfiresandplanchachim- such as the Kenyan jikoyield particulate levels in the region of neystovesfoundthatLPG-usinghouseholdstypicallyalsoused 10 percent ofthose from wood fires. anopenfireforspaceheatingandcookingwithlargepots.Asa In a number of Asian and Latin American countries, result,theplanchastovesachievedthelowestpollutionlevelsin improved
