Chapter
KEYWORDS: stoves, fuel, improved, household, energy, use, countries, percent, pollution, air, fuels, exposure, biomass, health, rural


electrified homes cooked primarily more than 4,300 (cid:1)g/m3 to about 1,000 (cid:1)g/m3 (Bruce and with electricity; the remainder used a mix of electricity, others 2002). kerosene,andsolidfuels.Despitethemixedfueluse,households Indoor Air Pollution | 803 cookingwithelectricityhadthelowestpollutionlevels.Overall, Costs were estimated separately for cleaner fuel and homesintheelectrifiedvillagehadsignificantlylower24-hour improved stove programs, using an “ingredients” approach meanrespirablePMandCOlevelsandsignificantlylowermean (Johns,Baltussen,and Hutubessy 2003) and a costing template 24-hourCOexposureforchildrenunder18monthsofagethan developed by WHO (2003).In summary,all the ingredients— homesinthenonelectrifiedvillages. including administrative, training, and operational costs— necessarytosetupandmaintainagivenprogrammustbeadded Effect ofOther Interventions. Little systematic evaluation has up.Forregionalestimates,costsofalltradedgoodswereinU.S. been made of other interventions listed in table 42.4. dollars,whereasnontraded(local)costswereestimatedinlocal Investigation of the potential of improving ventilation has, currencyandconvertedtoU.S.dollarsusingrelevantexchange overall,shown that although enlarging eaves can be quite effec- rates. All costs were annualized using a 3 percent discount tive (Bruce and others 2002), removing smoke generally rate.Costsfortradablegoodsarescaled,usingregion-specific requires a well-functioning flue or chimney. Behavioral standardizedpricemultiplierstoreflecttheincreasingcostsof changes are currently the subject of an intervention study in expanding coverage caused by higher transportation costs to South Africa (Barnes and others 2004a,2004b). more remote areas (Johns, Baltussen, and Hutubessy 2003). Pricemultiplierswerenotappliedtoimprovedstovesbecause theytendtobemanufacturedlocallywithmainlylocalmaterials. Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Programcostswerefoundtomakeupasmallproportionofthe Although clean fuels can be expected to have a greater health overallinterventioncosts.Savingsfromavertedhealthcarecosts effect than improved stoves (even those with flues),clean fuels are not included; because many of these cases currently go may be too expensive and inaccessible for many poor commu- untreated,itcanbearguedthatincludingtreatmentcostscould nities over the short to medium term. Furthermore, even resultininflatedcost-effectivenessratios(CERs). though clean fuels may be the best longer-term goal,an inter- mediate stage ofimproved biomass stoves may promote change Effectiveness and Health Outcome Assumptions. For this by raising awareness of benefits and thus creating demand by analysis, cleaner fuels are assumed to remove exposure com- those reasons,this cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) examines sure by 75 percent (ventilation factor of 0.25). The effect on both improved biomass stove and clean fuel options in the health of the exposure reduction will vary from region to following scenarios: region,because it depends on current levels ofexposure as well as region-specific rates of morbidity and mortality.A number • access to improved stoves (stoves with flues that vent smoke ofassumptions have been made about households in carrying to the exterior),with coverage of95 percent out analyses at the regional level. First, regional estimates of • access to cleaner fuels (LPG or kerosene),with coverage of household composition (numbers ofpeople,by age group and 95 percent sex) and, hence, the effect of interventions on exposure and cent) and part with improved stoves (45 percent). age distribution of household
