Chapter
KEYWORDS: stoves, fuel, improved, household, energy, use, countries, percent, pollution, air, fuels, exposure, biomass, health, rural


estimates.Costs were assumed to vary with a standard deviation of 5 percent, Implementation Period. The implementation period is and effectiveness by the range of the confidence interval 10years,although effects have been evaluated over 100 years in around the relative risk for each health endpoint. Results for order to approximate the benefits for an entire population Southeast Asia are shown in figure 42.3:the “clouds,”or uncer- tainty regions,illustrate the range of possible point estimates typical age structure for the population concerned that experi- emerging from the sensitivity analysis.This example is repre- ences the intervention for 10 years. It is assumed that after sentative because other regions show essentially similar results. 100years,all ofthe cohort (including children born during the Despite the uncertainty, the ranking of the interventions 10-year implementation period) will have died. remains the same (Mehta and Shahpar 2004). The implementation period has critical implications,partic- ularly in situations in which it takes several years to establish an Discussion. Results of this cost-effectiveness analysis indicate intervention (for example,developing local markets for clean- thatanimprovedbiomassstoveisthemostcost-effectiveinter- er fuel), in which there are high start-up costs, and in which ventionforSouthAsiaandSub-SaharanAfrica,thetworegions disease prevention is experienced in the distant future.This is withthehighestsolidfuel–relateddiseaseburden.Thisfinding isimportantgivenInternationalEnergyAgencyprojectionsto that result from exposure over many years.If the intervention 2030, which indicate that biomass will remain the principal is implemented and exposure reduced for only 10 years, the household fuel for the poor in South Asia and Sub-Saharan disease burden is effectively deferred by 10 years, whereas Africaandthatactualnumbersof userswillincreaseoverthat longer-term implementation would result in many more cases period(IEA2002).Cleanerfuels(particularlykerosene)arethe being averted.For this analysis,using the 10-year intervention most cost-effective options for East Asia and the Pacific, the scenario specified for the Disease Control Priorities Project-2, other region with a high burden of solid fuel–related disease. incident cases are deferred by 10 years.For COPD,it is assumed Cleaner fuels, in particular LPG, appear relatively costly for that reduced exposure results in a milder form of COPD, SouthAsiaandSub-SaharanAfrica,butcircumstancesinindi- accounted for by using a lower severity weighting. vidualcountriesmayvaryconsiderablyandinwaysthatmake Findings for Cost-Effectiveness Analysis. Findings from the this fuel much more cost-effective. Sudan, for example, has CEA are expressed,for the four intervention scenarios with dif- abundantcheapsuppliesof LPGandfavorableexcisearrange- fering coverage (50 percent,80 percent,95 percent),by region, ments for imported appliances,which would result in a lower as (a) total healthy years gained in each region,(b) CERs in U.S. CERforLPGthaninothercountriesintheregion.Furthermore, dollars per healthy year gained,and (c) healthy years gained per aswillbediscussedlater,costsandbenefitsfromtheuser’sper- US$1 million (table 42.6).For all regions,the cleaner
