Chapter
KEYWORDS: stoves, fuel, improved, household, energy, use, countries, percent, pollution, air, fuels, exposure, biomass, health, rural


in East Africa,which have proved popular and among counties for contracts, ensuring local interest and provided local employment , and improved allowing the best-placed counties to proceed first; financial stove interventions in Guatemala (UNDP and ESMAP 2003). payments were provided to counties only after completion of Implementation of the Chinese national program differed an independent review of their achievements. No large flows substantially from that in India. Although the Chinese rural of funds came from the central government (in contrast, for purchasing power than the poor in many developing countries, financial contributions.As a result,delays and other problems allowing development ofa program with the majority ofcon- associated with transferring large amounts ofmoney have been Box 42.3 Key Features and Lessons from India’s National Stove Program The Indian National Programme ofImproved Cookstoves much less.Evaluation ofthe program identified four main was established in 1983 with goals common to many such problems: initiatives: • Most states placed inadequate emphasis on commer- • conserving fuel cialization, now seen as crucial for effective and • reducing smoke emissions in the cooking area and sustainable uptake. • reducing deforestation self-employed workers,and NGOs,so the designs did • limiting the drudgery of women and children and not meet needs ofhouseholds,and there was very poor reducing cooking time acceptance ofuser training. • improving employment opportunities for the rural • Quality control for installation and maintenance ofthe poor. stove and its appropriate use was lacking. • High levels of subsidy (about 50 percent of the stove Although the Ministry of Non-Conventional Energy cost) were found to reduce household motivation to Sources was responsible for planning,setting targets,and use and maintain the stove. approving stove designs, state-level agencies relayed this information to local government agencies or NGOs. A Some more successfully managed areas ofthe program technical backup unit in each state trained rural women or focused resources on technical assistance, research and unemployed youths to become self-employed workers to development,marketing,and information dissemination. construct and install the stoves. Recently,the government of India decentralized the pro- Between 1983 and 2000,the program distributed more gram and transferred all implementation responsibility to than 33 million improved stoves. Despite extensive gov- state level.Since 2000,the program promotes only durable ernment promotion efforts,improved stoves now account cement stoves with chimneys that have a minimum life for less than 7 percent ofall stoves.Among those that have span of five years. The introduction of these stoves will been adopted,poor quality and lack
