Chapter
KEYWORDS: stoves, fuel, improved, household, energy, use, countries, percent, pollution, air, fuels, exposure, biomass, health, rural


that have a minimum life for less than 7 percent ofall stoves.Among those that have span of five years. The introduction of these stoves will been adopted,poor quality and lack ofmaintenance have make adhesion to technical specifications and quality con- resulted in a life span of two years at most and typically trol much easier. Source:Authors, based on ESMAP and World Bank 2001. Indoor Air Pollution | 809 Box 42.4 Household Effects of China’s National Improved Stove Program In2002,anindependentmultidisciplinaryevaluationwas not among households using combinations of fuels undertaken by a team of U.S.and Chinese researchers to that included coal or LPG), improved stoves showed evaluate (a) implementation methods used to promote significantly lower PM and CO concentrations than improved stoves; (b) commercial stove production and traditional stoves. marketingorganizationsthatwerecreated;and(c)effects • Inbothchildrenandadults,coalusewasassociatedwith oftheprogramonhouseholds,includinghealth,stoveper- higherlevelsofexposure(asmeasuredbyCOinexhaled formance, socioeconomic factors, and monitoring of breath)andimprovedbiomassstoveswithlowerlevels. indoor air quality. The first two objectives were assessed Reportedchildhoodasthmaandadultrespiratorydis- throughafacilitysurveyof108institutionsatalllevels.The ease were negatively associated with use of improved thirdobjectivewasassessedthroughahouseholdsurveyof stoves and good stove maintenance. These results nearly 4,000 households in three provinces: Zheijang, should, however, be treated as indicative because of Hubei,andShaanxi.Keyfindingswereasfollows: limitedsamplesize. • The household survey revealed highly diverse fuel Overall, several important conclusions emerge with usage patterns: 28 and 34 different fuel combinations relevance to future improved stove programs: were used in kitchens in winter and summer, respec- tively. Most households owned at least one or more • A wide range of combinations of different fuel and coal and one or more biomass stoves.Of the biomass stove types may limit the effect of an improved stove stoves 77 percent,but only 38 percent ofthe coal stoves, program. were classified as improved. On average, improved • Given the importance of space heating,making avail- stoves had a mean efficiency of 14 percent, which is able an improved biomass stove for cooking may not be wellbelowtheprogramtargetofbetween20and30per- a sufficient strategy to reduce IAP.Improved coal stoves cent, but above the mean efficiency of 9 percent for need to be promoted among rural Chinese households. traditional stoves. • Even among households using improved stoves, PM • With respect to air quality (measured with PM , the and CO levels were higher than Chinese national “thoracic fraction”ofparticulate matter,and CO),coal indoor air standards,implying that a large fraction of stoves showed significantly higher concentrations than China’s rural population is still chronically exposed to biomass stoves during the summer,but not during the pollution levels substantially above those determined winter. Among
