Chapter
KEYWORDS: stoves, fuel, improved, household, energy, use, countries, percent, pollution, air, fuels, exposure, biomass, health, rural


stoves showed significantly higher concentrations than China’s rural population is still chronically exposed to biomass stoves during the summer,but not during the pollution levels substantially above those determined winter. Among households using biomass fuels (but by the Chinese government to harm human health. Source:Authors, based on Sinton and others 2004. avoided. The Chinese program succeeded in shifting norms: awareness of costs and benefits. McDade (2004) has recently most biomass stoves now available on the market have flues identified a number of key lessons emerging from experience and other technical features that classify them as improved. with the promotion ofLPG markets (box 42.5). ExperienceinthepromotionofLPGhasalsobeenreported, Electrification has an important role in development (IEA for example, from the Indian Deepam Scheme (ESMAP and 2002).EvidencefromSouthAfricasuggeststhatcommunities World Bank 2004;UNDP and ESMAP 2002) and from the LPG with grid access experience lower IAP exposure (Rollin and Rural Energy Challenge . The latter initiative, others 2004). Electricity is not expected to bring about large developed by UNDP and the World LPG Association in 2002, reductions in IAP exposure in most low-income countries, is promoting the development ofnew,viable markets for LPG however,becausemostpoorhouseholdscanafforditonlyfor in developing countries.Key elements include developing part- usessuchaslightingandrunningentertainmentappliancesand nerships in countries; enabling regulatory environments that not for cooking and space heating. The International Energy facilitate LPG business development and product delivery; Agencyhasrecentlycarriedoutadetailedreviewofelectrifica- reducing barriers,for example,by introducing smaller (more tion,includingtheissuesinvolvedinsupplyandcostrecovery affordable) gas bottles;and raising government and consumer amongpoor(andespeciallyrural)communities(IEA2002). 810 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Nigel Bruce, Eva Rehfuess, Sumi Mehta, and others Box 42.5 Key Lessons Learned in the Promotion of New Markets for LPG in Developing Countries • LPG can be affordable outside of urban areas, where expansion.These issues need to be addressed by raising wood fuel is currently purchased.On the other hand, awareness among consumers and strengthening regula- “for many consumers who do not participate in the tory environments. monetized economy, it will be premature to promote • Appliances for a range of end uses required by con- LPG markets.” sumers must be available. • One-time subsidies on appliances could be a good use • Government leadership is essential, backed up by ofgovernment (or other) resources. policy that sets the basic parameters for successful mar- • Microcredit initiatives should emphasize the cost- ket expansion and avoids conflict between, for exam- saving and productive potential and should seek to ple, subsidies on competing fuels that undermine package both the gas (and appliances) and
