Chapter
KEYWORDS: stoves, fuel, improved, household, energy, use, countries, percent, pollution, air, fuels, exposure, biomass, health, rural


ket expansion and avoids conflict between, for exam- saving and productive potential and should seek to ple, subsidies on competing fuels that undermine package both the gas (and appliances) and the efforts to promote LPG markets. financing. • Specific initiatives,such as integrated energy centers (as • Concerns about safe handling, cylinder refilling, and in Morocco and South Africa) offer an effective means transportation can be serious barriers to market ofdeveloping markets in rural areas. Source:Authors, based on McDade 2004. The key lessons from experience with interventions to date Management Assistance Programme (UNDP and ESMAP may be summarized as follows: 2003) found that,despite the almost total reliance ofthe rural population on biomass,a marked lack ofnational policy,lead- • Too often, intervention technologies have been developed ership,and coordinated action existed in relation to household without adequate reference to users’needs and,as a result, energy.Countries need to develop mechanisms for action and have been poorly used and maintained or abandoned. coordination in light of local needs, available institutional Consequently,it is important to involve users—particularly capacity,and leadership potential. women—in assessing needs and developing suitable interventions. • Sustainable adoption should also be promoted through THE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AGENDA greater availability ofa choice ofappropriately priced inter- ventions through local commercial outlets (artisans,shops, WHO has,through a process involving multistakeholder meet- markets).This situation will come about only if demand is ings and reviews,developed some consensus on research and sufficient and if producers and distributors recognize this demand. (see for example WHO 2002a).Effective coordination is a pre- • All too commonly, communities most at risk exhibit low requisite because ofthe need for input from,and collaboration awareness, low demand, and poverty (often extreme between, many different organizations and “actors”that have poverty). A combination of user involvement and market generally not previously worked in partnership on this issue. approaches is needed, supported by the promotion and One recent response to this need has been the establishment availabilityof targetedsubsidiesormicrocreditfacilitiesor of the Partnership for Clean Indoor Air, following the both.Thenatureandextentofsuchfinancialsupportshould Johannesburg World Summit on Sustainable Development in dependonthepurchasingpowerofthecommunity. 2002 (EPA 2004; • Local initiatives such as those outlined above must be led by The evidence base on health effects requires further national (and subnational) policy that acknowledges the strengthening,particularly to quantify the effect ofa measured contributions of a range of actors (government, business, reduction in IAP exposure on the risk of key outcomes (for example, ALRI). A randomized controlled trial is currently finance,and so
