Chapter
KEYWORDS: stoves, fuel, improved, household, energy, use, countries, percent, pollution, air, fuels, exposure, biomass, health, rural


factors.Although there is a trend toward cleaner and for countries that offers information on the effectiveness of more efficient energy with increasing prosperity,little improve- interventions as well as the enabling factors that facilitate long- ment is in prospect for more than 2 billion ofthe world’s poor- term, sustained adoption and use of suitable improved tech- est people,particularly in South Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa. nologies in different settings . The number of people relying on traditional biomass is Economicassessment,includingcost-effectivenessanalysis, actually expected to increase until 2030. hasavaluableparttoplay.Criticalissuesresultingfromlimited Althoughthedevelopmentof newenergytechnologieshas evidencehavebeenidentifiedaboutestimationsandassump- aparttoplayinaddressingthisproblem,manyeffectiveinter- tionsforcosts,exposurereductions,healtheffects,andaverted ventions are already available.The single greatest challenge is treatmentcosts,aswellasthecurrentinabilitytoassessnational to dramatically increase the access of poor households to andsubnationalcost-effectiveness.CBAmaybemoresuitable cleaner and more efficient household energy systems. Much forinterventionsinthisandsimilarareasbutwillrequirebetter valuable experience has been gained from successful—and descriptionofenvironmental,social,andeconomiceffectsand unsuccessful—programs in household energy over the past furtherdevelopmentofvaluationmethods.Newhealthstudies three to four decades. Despite this experience, coherent, andbroadlybasedevaluationsofinterventionsshouldhelpfill evidence-basedpolicyislackinginmostof thecountriescon- someofthesegaps. cerned, where the lessons from experience now need to be Determinationof themacroeconomiccoststocountriesof implemented. Implementation will require greater awareness currenthouseholdenergyuseandthepotentialgainsresulting of the problem at international and national levels,provision fromchangetomoreefficientandcleaneroptionscouldsub- of support for national collaborative action, and a focus on stantiallyaddtothecaseforaction. supportingappropriate,mainlymarket-basedinterventions. Monitoring progress requires thedevelopment and testing Better information is crucial to this effort, including ofstandard indicators for use in such policy documents as the stronger evidence ofthe health effects ofIAP exposure;assess- World Development Report and for routine application at ment of the social, economic, and environmental benefits of national and subnational levels.The Millennium Development interventions; and indicators to monitor progress. Economic Goal Indicator on the proportion ofthe population using solid analysis can help bring the case for action into policy, but it fuels is a key starting point,and WHO,the reporting agency,is needs to be applied at country level and to include a wider working to broaden the monitoring of this indicator through range of benefits. Results from analysis at the regional level (ORC Macro 2004), the Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey improved stoves,as long as these interventions can deliver sub- 812 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Nigel Bruce, Eva Rehfuess, Sumi Mehta, and others well as its qualification,is important given the expectation that Boy,E.,N.G.Bruce,and H.Delgado.2002.“Birthweight and Exposure to biomass will remain the principal household fuel in many Kitchen Wood Smoke during Pregnancy.” Environmental Health Perspectives110 (1):109–14. developing countries for more than 20 years. The balance of Boy,E.,N.G.Bruce,K.R.Smith,and R.Hernandez.2000.“Fuel Efficiency effort and resources put into promoting cleaner biomass inter- ofan Improved Wood Burning
