Infective endocarditis - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: endocarditis, valve, treatment, common, osler, organisms, blood, diagnosis, fever, lesions, infection, patients, prosthetic, valves, heart


Chapter 10 Infective endocarditis Background Endocarditis was first described by William Osler in 1885. It is an inflammatory process that affects the endocardium and may have an infective or noninfective (eg, systemic lupus erythematosus) origin. It is uncommon in the western world (22 cases per million), but more prevalent in developing countries. Diagnosis Symptoms Endocarditis is rarely an obvious diagnosis for a generalist. It may present with a wide variety of clinical signs, some subtle; the diagnosis may be difficult or the signs misleading, and there is a wide differential diagnosis to consider. However, there is a wealth of clinical signs to look for. Constitutional symptoms Endocarditis should be considered in patients with vague or generalized constitutional symptoms such as fever, rigors, night sweats, anorexia, weight loss, or arthralgia. Cardiac signs The presence of a new murmur is very significant, as is a change in the nature of an existing murmur (a regurgitant murmur may disappear on worsening). Myocardial involvement or valvular dysfunction may both contribute to left ventricular failure. Skin lesions Endocarditis is indicated by: Osler's nodes – tender lesions found on finger pulps and thenar/hypothenar eminences (see Figure 1) Janeway lesions – transient, nontender macular papules on palms or soles splinter hemorrhages petechiae (embolic or vasculitic) clubbing – in long-standing disease Figure 1 Osler's nodes on a finger and foot. Eyes Roth spots (boat-shaped hemorrhages with pale centers, in retina) and conjunctival splinter hemorrhages may be found. Splenomegaly Splenic infarction may occur as a result of emboli. In this case, splenic palpation may be painful and tender, and a rub may be heard. Neurological An acute confusional state is common in patients with infective endocarditis (IE). Cerebral emboli, which usually affect the middle cerebral artery, result in hemiplegia and sensory dysfunction. Mycotic aneurysms also affect the middle cerebral artery, where rupture may cause a subarachnoid hematoma. Mycotic aneurysms can occur several years after endocarditis has been treated. Renal Infarction causes loin pain and hematuria. Immune complex deposition may result in glomerulonephritis. Osler's Nodes William Osler, 1909, on the eponymous Osler's nodes: "One of the most interesting features of [endocarditis] and one to which very little attention has been paid is the occurrence of ephemeral spots of a painful nodular erythema, chiefly in the skin of the hands and feet, the nodosités cutanées éphémerès of the French… The commonest situation is near the tip of the finger, which may
