Infective endocarditis - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: endocarditis, valve, treatment, common, osler, organisms, blood, diagnosis, fever, lesions, infection, patients, prosthetic, valves, heart


nodular erythema, chiefly in the skin of the hands and feet, the nodosités cutanées éphémerès of the French… The commonest situation is near the tip of the finger, which may be slightly swollen." If any of these signs occur together with a fever, the patient should be urgently referred to a cardiologist for blood cultures and echocardiography – the level of risk will determine whether this is transesophageal echo (TEE) or transthoracic echo. Blind treatment with antibiotics should not be undertaken since it will delay diagnosis and identification of the causal organism. Antibiotics should not be initiated before three sets of blood cultures have been taken. Formal diagnosis The Duke diagnostic classification for IE divides signs and symptoms into major and minor criteria (see Table 1). IE is diagnosed if patients have: Table 1 Definitions of terms used in the Duke criteria for the diagnosis of infective endocarditis (IE). two major criteria; or one major and three minor criteria; or five minor criteria These criteria are associated with a 99% specificity for diagnosis in follow-up studies. It has been proposed that the minor criteria be extended to include erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) or C-reactive protein (CRP), splenomegaly, microscopic hematuria, and newly diagnosed clubbing. This adjustment increases diagnostic sensitivity by 10%. Intravenous drug abuse Right-sided endocarditis is common in intravenous drug abusers (IVDAs) because of nonsterile injection into the venous system. The presentation tends to differ from that of classic IE, in that these patients are more likely to develop pneumonia or septic pulmonary emboli than the characteristic signs mentioned above (which result from left-sided embolization). In addition, predominant right-sided failure is more common (look for significantly raised jugular venous pressure and gross peripheral edema). The tricuspid valve is most commonly affected (50%), 2/7 whereas involvement of the mitral and aortic valves is less common (20% each). The involvement of multiple valves is common. Pulmonary valve endocarditis is rare. Etiology IE has a large number of causative organisms. Streptococci These account for 50%–80% of IE cases. Streptococcus viridans (eg, S. anguis, S. milleri, S. mutans, S. mitior) make up the normal bacterial flora of the pharynx and upper respiratory tract. Tonsillectomy, dental extraction, and dental cleaning can result in bacteremia and lead to infection. William Osler, 1919 "Observe, record, tabulate, communicate. Use your five senses." Sir William Osler (1849–1919) is one of the most admired and honored physicians in the history
