Infective endocarditis - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: endocarditis, valve, treatment, common, osler, organisms, blood, diagnosis, fever, lesions, infection, patients, prosthetic, valves, heart


lead to infection. William Osler, 1919 "Observe, record, tabulate, communicate. Use your five senses." Sir William Osler (1849–1919) is one of the most admired and honored physicians in the history of medicine. He exerted a truly global influence through professorships (McGill, Johns Hopkins, and Oxford), his textbook The Principles and Practice of Medicine, and other clinical and philosophical writings. This influence is apparent not least in the sheer number of conditions that bear his name: Osler–Weber–Rendu syndrome (hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia), Osler's nodes, Osler–Libman disease (subacute bacterial endocarditis), and Osler–Libman–Sacks syndrome (systemic lupus erythematosus with endocarditis) are simply a few. But it was perhaps his overwhelming humanism and his dedication to patient-centered learning that marked him out as truly great (he once ran after an alcoholic beggar to whom he'd just given coins and added his own overcoat to the donation, saying: "You may drink yourself to death, and undoubtedly will, but I cannot let you freeze to death"). The combination of profound caring, a prolific output of creative writing and ideas, and a lifelong penchant for elaborate practical jokes has made him one of the most memorable physicians of the 20th century. Staphylococci Staphylococcus aureus and Staphylococcus epidermidis account for 20%–30% of subacute cases of IE and 50% of the acute forms. The presence of central venous catheters (feeding lines or temporary pacing lines) increases susceptibility. Acute S. aureus infection of previously normal valves has a mortality rate of 3%. This is the most common situation in IVDAs. Coagulase- negative staphylococci cause 30%–50% of prosthetic valve endocarditis. Enterococci Enterococci account for 5%–15% of IE cases. Enterococcal organisms, which include Streptococcus faecalis, have low infectivity. HACEK organisms The HACEK group of organisms – Haemophilus parainfluenza, Haemophilus aphrophilus, Actinobacillus (Haemophilus) actinomycetemcomitans, Cardiobacterium hominis, the Eikenella species, and the Kingella species – also commonly cause IE and can be difficult to diagnose. Their identification may require samples to be taken in special media. IE is also caused by other, less common organisms. Candida, Aspergillus, Histoplasma, and Brucella infections are rare, but are found, in particular, in IVDAs, alcoholics, and patients with 3/7 prosthetic heart valves. Coxiella burnetii (the causative agent of Q fever) can also cause a subacute infection. Pathogenesis Endocarditis infection occurs along the edges of the heart valves. The lesions, called vegetations, are masses composed of fibrin, platelets, and infecting organisms, held together by agglutinating antibodies produced by the bacteria. As
