Infective endocarditis - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: endocarditis, valve, treatment, common, osler, organisms, blood, diagnosis, fever, lesions, infection, patients, prosthetic, valves, heart


along the edges of the heart valves. The lesions, called vegetations, are masses composed of fibrin, platelets, and infecting organisms, held together by agglutinating antibodies produced by the bacteria. As inflammation continues, ulceration may result in erosion or perforation of the valve cusps, leading to valvular incompetence, damage to the conduction pathway (if in the septal area), or rupture of a sinus of Valsalva (if in the aortic area). Although endocarditis can affect native and prosthetic valves, infection seldom affects a previously normal heart – the majority (60%) of IE patients have a predisposing cardiac condition. Vegetations usually affect the left side of the heart, with the most common underlying lesions being mitral valve prolapse and degenerative mitral and aortic regurgitation (see Figure 2). Figure 2 Mitral valve vegetation. Rheumatic disease is a risk factor for the development of endocarditis. Other predisposing cardiac lesions include hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with associated mitral reflux, subaortic stenosis, and ventricular aneurysm. There are also congenital lesions that predispose adults to endocarditis: these include ventricular septal defect (VSD), bicuspid aortic valve, and coarctation of the aorta. Vegetations occur when a high-pressure jet enters a low-pressure cavity through a narrow orifice. This explains why endocarditis complicates a small VSD, but is not associated with a large VSD, mitral stenosis, or an atrial septal defect. In the presence of a VSD, vegetations can be found on the right ventricular side of the VSD, on the tricuspid valve, or where the jet impinges on the right ventricular wall. Vegetations found in coarctation usually occur distal to the obstruction. Finally, in children, cyanotic heart disease is still the most common cause of endocarditis, and the risk does not diminish after surgical repair as prostheses carry their own risk. Prosthetic valve endocarditis A special subset of endocarditis is that affecting prosthetic valves. This is traditionally divided into early onset (within 60 days of surgery) or late onset. Early onset usually results from perioperative valve contamination with staphylococci, whereas the etiology of late prosthetic valve endocarditis resembles native valve infection, usually due to streptococci. Refer with confidence As mentioned above, IE can be a difficult diagnosis to make, and the key for the generalist is to always be aware of it as a differential. Fever and arthralgia are very common complaints, but if there is any suggestion that they are not due to a simple viral illness (eg, by the presence of
