Infective endocarditis - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: endocarditis, valve, treatment, common, osler, organisms, blood, diagnosis, fever, lesions, infection, patients, prosthetic, valves, heart


a differential. Fever and arthralgia are very common complaints, but if there is any suggestion that they are not due to a simple viral illness (eg, by the presence of a particularly high temperature or other clinical signs [see above]) then the patient should be referred for blood cultures and an echo. If fever and a changing murmur coexist then urgent referral is warranted, although, even here, it can be useful to take blood cultures and a bottle for serology (for the diagnosis of culture-negative endocarditis) yourself. Specialist management Investigations 4/7 Blood cultures Blood cultures are the primary investigation in the diagnosis of IE and yield the causative micro- organism in up to 95% of cases. A failure to do so can be due to prior antibiotic treatment, the presence of fastidious organisms (eg, belonging to the HACEK group), or unusual organisms such as Candida, Chlamydia, or Brucella. Most importantly, blood has to be drawn before antibiotic treatment is initiated, at three different time points over a minimum of 1 hour. At each time point, blood should be taken from a different site of the patient's body – but not from central lines – and each sample is placed into a pair of blood culture bottles that cultivate aerobic and anaerobic bacteria separately. If immediate antibiotic treatment is warranted, this can be initiated right after completion of blood culturing, once microbiology tests have identified a specific organism and the antibiotic therapy has been modified accordingly. Antibiotic therapy can have an enormous impact on the patient's prognosis; therefore, all efforts have to be made to collect and culture specimens as carefully as possible. This ensures the correct identification of the causative micro-organisms, and ultimately the correct use of antibiotics. Echocardiography This is the key investigation as it can assess underlying cardiac function as well as demonstrate vegetations. Chamber size, pre-existing rheumatic disease, and valve apparatus can be examined and the degree of valve incompetence assessed. Transthoracic two-dimensional echo can detect vegetations above 2 mm in diameter, whereas TEE has greater precision in detection of lesions (1–1.5 mm), with a sensitivity and specificity of over 90% (see Figure 3). Detection of prosthetic endocarditis is more sensitive with TEE. Figure 3 Transesophageal echo for 1 mm lesions. Other investigations Other investigations include the following: blood count – normochromic normocytic anemia is usual, while neutrophil leucocytosis is common ESR – this may be raised
