Infective endocarditis - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: endocarditis, valve, treatment, common, osler, organisms, blood, diagnosis, fever, lesions, infection, patients, prosthetic, valves, heart


for 1 mm lesions. Other investigations Other investigations include the following: blood count – normochromic normocytic anemia is usual, while neutrophil leucocytosis is common ESR – this may be raised renal and liver function test – levels of creatinine may be raised; levels of liver enzymes may be raised in a hepatocellular (nonobstructive) pattern CRP – increases acutely in bacterial infection urine microscopy – microscopic hematuria is common in early disease culture – culture any skin lesion, drip site, or other focus of infection electrocardiography (ECG) – ECG regularly (daily if aortic or septal root abscess is suspected) Treatment Antibiotics If, following blood cultures, the diagnosis is secure, high-dose IV antibiotics should be started immediately. It is becoming increasingly common to insert a tunneled central line to facilitate 5/7 several weeks of IV treatment without the need for repeated cannulation – with the pain and attendant risk of secondary infection that this incurs. Native valve endocarditis with a subacute onset is most likely to be caused by S. viridans or an enterococcal species. Treatment involves IV penicillin (2.4 g, 4 hourly) for up to 4 weeks, with gentamicin (1 mg/kg, 12 hourly) for 2 weeks. If the onset is acute, staphylococci need to be covered and treatment should include IV cloxacillin (flucloxacillin) (3 g, 6 hourly, in place of penicillin) with oral fusidic acid. If the patient is allergic to penicillin, other possibilities are vancomycin (1 g twice daily) or teicoplanin (400 mg twice daily for 3 days, then 400 mg daily). Plasma levels of gentamicin and vancomycin need to be monitored every 48–72 hours. Empirical treatment of endocarditis affecting prosthetic valves should cover streptococci, enterococci, staphylococci (including methicillin-resistant S. aureus), and Gram-negative organisms. Vancomycin or teicoplanin with gentamicin have good synergistic cover. In drug abusers, treatment for endocarditis should include cover for S. aureus and Gram-negative bacilli (eg, cloxacillin and pipercillin). In the treatment of rarer causes of endocarditis, Coxiella may require doxycycline with cotrimoxazole or rifampicin. Candida and Aspergillus may respond to medical therapy (5- fluorouracil and amphotericin B, respectively), but, generally, all three of these infections respond poorly to medical therapy alone and require surgical intervention. In the treatment of IE, from any source, fever may still be present 2 weeks after starting the appropriate treatment, even with drug-sensitive organisms. This could be due to the presence of an underlying large vegetation or abscess. If fever persists,
