Busettoetal.BMCUrology2014,14:53
KEYWORDS: patients, symptoms, prostatitis, months, therapy, group, chronic, bacterial, antibiotic, particular, follow-up, baseline, nih-cpsi, bacterial prostatitis, busettoetal


recommended by the Inthearticlewereportresultsofanassociationtherapy European Urology guidelines. In particular, for chronic with third generation fluoroquinolone (prulifloxacin bacterial prostatitis, fluoroquinolones, thanks to their 600 mg) and nutraceutical supplement (Serenoa repens favourable pharmacokinetic properties, prostate penetra- 320 mg, Lactobacillus Sporogens 200 mg, Arbutin tion, bioavailability and excellent activity against typical/ 100mg)inthetreatmentofchronicbacterialprostatitis. atypical pathogens togetherwith a good safety profile, are considereddrugsofchoice.Theuseoffluoroquinolones,a Methods broad-spectrum antibiotic, is strengthened by the From January 2012 to December 2012 a total of 210 well-known evidence that CBP is commonly caused patients with an average age of 36.6 (19–54) were by Gram-negative bacteria such as Escherichia coli, enrolled in the study. In particular all of the patients and also by the recent consideration of some authors were affected by chronic bacterial prostatitis and in that reported an emerging prevalence of Gram-positive accordance with the definition of the disease were and atypical bacteria together with anaerobes . positive to the Meares-Stamey test and symptoms Usuallyhigh-dosesandalong-lastingtherapyarepreferred duration was>3 months (dysuria, pelvic pain and/or becauseonlylow-molecular-weightandlipid-solubledrugs, discomfort). The Meares-Stamey test, also known as not tightlyconnected to plasmaproteins, areable to pene- 4-glass test,is the standard method of assessing inflamma- trate the epithelial membrane, even considering reported tion and presence of bacteria in the lower urinary tract of side-effects (gastrointestinal disorders and development of menpresentingCBP.Thetesthasbeenperformedoneach antibiotics resistance) [6-8]. This approach, although patient before and after the therapy. The Meares-Stamey recommended, may not be enough, considering patients’ evaluationallowsthecollectionoffoursamples:firstvoided and urologists’ high rate of dissatisfaction. Furthermore, urine (VB1) that represents urethra, mid-stream urine given the overlapping of lower urinary tract symptoms, (VB2)thatrepresentsbladder,expressedprostaticsecretion antibiotics alone could be inadequate. The main purpose (EPS) and post-prostatic massage urine (VB3) that repre- of the therapy is to eradicate uropathogens without sent the prostate. It is considered positive when we have forgetting to relieve symptoms that mainly act on urophathogencolony-formingunits(CFU)/mL≥103. QoL. Considering the heterogeneous nature of chronic TheNIH-ChronicProstatitisSymptomIndex(NIH-CPSI) prostatitis and recurrence rate of this disorder, a multi- is a questionnaire with 13 questions developed to modal approach to the prolonged antibiotic therapy may evaluatesymptomsandqualityoflifeinmenwithchronic be helpful for the solution of the problem at hand. The prostatitis/chronicpelvicpainsyndrome(CP/CPPS).Every use of plant-derived products is reaching popularity questionhasascoredifferingbytheanswer,andtheques- in North America and Europe and is often one of the tionnairehasatotalscorerangingfrom0to43.Thescore treatments of choice for chronic conditions . Main is divided by three subscales: pain (score range 0–21), Busettoetal.BMCUrology2014,14:53 Page3of9 Table1Patientscharacteristics Table2Uropathogenscharacteristicsanddisease GroupA GroupB recurrences No.ofpatients* 76 77 GroupA GroupB Uropathogens(baseline)(%) Medianage(±S.D.)(years)* 35.9(6.2) 37.1(6.5) Gramnegative 41(53.9) 39(50.6)
