Busettoetal.BMCUrology2014,14:53
KEYWORDS: patients, symptoms, prostatitis, months, therapy, group, chronic, bacterial, antibiotic, particular, follow-up, baseline, nih-cpsi, bacterial prostatitis, busettoetal


α-blockers, phytotherapy and particular, the difference, is significant only at 4 and alternative therapies such as biofeedback, psychotherapy 6 months with a p value respectively of 0.012 and<0.001. and acupuncture . Long-lasting therapy with fluori- Allincludedpatientsreceivedtherapyproperlywithoutany quinolones antibiotics is one of the best treatments in dose/tablet variation and with a compliance of 100%. patientswithCBPbecauseofapharmacokineticfavourable No side effects were reported with either therapy scheme profile and in particular ciprofloxacin and levofloxacin (antibioticvsantibiotic+compound).Onlypatientswitha are recommended. The latter also has a favourable biological recurrence received an additional antibiotic action against Gram+pathogens. Prulifloxacin, a third courseinaccordancewithantibiogram. generation fluoroquinolone, has been approved for the Busettoetal.BMCUrology2014,14:53 Page6of9 Figure2PSA.SerumPSAatbaseline,2nd,4thand6thmonth. treatment oflowerurinarytractinfection.Furthermore,it inhibition of 5-alpha-reductase, involved in the transform- has demonstrated its ability to better penetrate into ation of testosterone to its biologically active metabolite, prostatic tissue compared to other quinolones, thus that stimulates cell proliferation and hypertrophy of the confirming a potential therapeutic role in the treatment of prostate tissue; anti-inflammatory and anti-oedema bacterial prostatic infections . Giannarini et al., com- effect, demonstrated by reduced capillary permeability paringa4-weekscourseofprulifoxacinincomparisonwith induced by histamine; anti-estrogenic effect given by levofloxacin in the treatment of chronic bacterial prosta- decline in estrogen receptors, which seems to potentiate titis, report, at 6 months, a microbiological eradication of the action of hormones in the development of BHP 72.73% and 71.11%, repectively, and a reduction in the . Unlike 5-α-reductase inhibitors (5-ARI), a select- NIH-CPSI of 10.75 and 10.73. The authors conclude that ive competitive inhibitors of α-reductase type II that is prulifloxacin is at last as effective and safe as levofloxacin more specific for prostate, serenoa repens isn’t selective .Serenoarepens,sawpalmettoextract,themostwidely andactsagainstbothtypes(typeIandII).Caietal.,com- used supplement for lower urinary tracts (LUTS), and in paringtheusageofprulifloxacinalonewithplurifloxacinin particular for prostatic infection and inflammation, has a associationwithserenoarepens,urticadioica,quercitinand multimodal effect that is explained with a set of different curcumin in the treatment of chronic bacterial prostatitis mechanismsofaction:selectiveantagonismofthelinkbe- type II, report a statistically significant difference in QoL tween dihydrotestosterone and androgen receptor; and symptoms (absence of symptoms: 27% vs 89.6%) . Busettoetal.BMCUrology2014,14:53 Page7of9 Figure3Symptoms.Presenceofsymptomsatbaseline,2nd,4thand6thmonth. Probiotics are important to reduce gastrointestinal Probiotics, with different mechanisms of action, have the side-effects caused by the prolonged use of broad-band ability to attach to uroepithelial cells and obtain direct antibiotics. Considering that pathogens found in the antimicrobial activity . The reason we suggest using prostate often derive from intestinal bacterial overgrowth, probioticsinassociationwithalong-courseantibioticisto it is important to remark the role of probiotics in rebalanceintestinalbacterialfloraandtoavoidanyurinary maintaining a regular intestinal bacterial
