Busettoetal.BMCUrology2014,14:53
KEYWORDS: patients, symptoms, prostatitis, months, therapy, group, chronic, bacterial, antibiotic, particular, follow-up, baseline, nih-cpsi, bacterial prostatitis, busettoetal


. The reason we suggest using prostate often derive from intestinal bacterial overgrowth, probioticsinassociationwithalong-courseantibioticisto it is important to remark the role of probiotics in rebalanceintestinalbacterialfloraandtoavoidanyurinary maintaining a regular intestinal bacterial flora . tract dysbacteriosis and to prevent UTI recurrences . Some authors have postulated that urethral dysbacteriosis One of the limitsofmanystudiesonchronicprostatitisis isoneoftheprimarycausesofCP,furthercontributingto that they focus only on infection eradication instead its recidivity and refractoriness . In particular, when of symptoms improvement. Inflammation, together with this condition occurs, the urethral microflora infects the neuromuscular spasm, is often the most important cause prostate through prostatic reflux of urine into prostatic of chronic prostatitis symptoms . Arbutin, a glycoside ducts causing bacterial prostatitis and inflammation . extractedfrombearberryplant,isatraditionalsupplement Overused and overprescribed antibiotics are usually for treating UTI mainly because of its anti-inflammatory the cause of urethral dysbacteriosis while probiotics effect due to antioxidant capability dispatched on lypopo- are considered a viable potential alternative for treating lisaccharide, inducedproductionofNOand expressionof and preventing prostatitis and all urinary tract infections. iNOSandCOX-2. Busettoetal.BMCUrology2014,14:53 Page8of9 Our study has been drawn to evaluate the efficacy of a debated, and difficulty to evaluate if the results in the short-course, broad band antibiotic therapy (21 days of patients with recurrence have been altered by different prulifloxacin 600 mg) to eradicate pathogens in patients antibioticadministeredinaccordancewithantibiogram. with CBP and to evaluate if an association with a supple- ment (30 days of serenoa repens 320 mg, lactobacillus Conclusions sporogens 200 mg and arbutin 100 mg) is able to prevent In summary, a broad band, short-lasting antibiotic recurrences and improve symptoms in those patients with therapy in association with a nutritional supplement this particularly frustrating condition. To evaluate the out- (serenoa repens, lactobacillus sporogens and arbutin) comes, patients, divided in two different groups (A and B), show better control and recurrence rates on patients have been submitted to different therapies: antibiotic or affected by chronic bacterial prostatitis, in comparison antibiotic plus supplement. Looking at the results we can with compared to antibiotic treatment alone. notice,withastatisticallysignificantdifference,thatpatients Competinginterests treated with the association of compounds obtain better Theauthorsdeclarethattheyhavenocompetinginterests. effects as demonstrated with the NIH-CPSI questionnaire. Analysing first, second and third follow-up, patients in Authors’contributions Group A obtain an improvement at 2 and 4 months while GMBanalyseddataanddraftedthemanuscript.RGacquireddata.MF participatedininterpretationofdata.STandFDGgavetheircontributionin there is a decrease in results at the 6th month. Patients in acquiringdata.ODCandVGcriticallyrevisedthemanuscript.EDB GroupBobtainbetterresultsincomparisonwithGroupA, participatedintheconceptionanddesignofthestudy.Allauthorsreadand and furthermore the NIH-CPSI score continues to also approvedthefinalmanuscript. decrease at the 6th month follow-up. Symptoms, probably Acknowledgements
