NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: amifampridine, liver, myasthenic, injury, liver injury, myasthenia, syndrome, lambert-eaton, drug, therapy, study, pmid, pubmed pmid, pubmed, myasthenic syndrome


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Amifampridine. [Updated 2019 May 15]. Bookshelf URL: Amifampridine Updated: May 15, 2019. OVERVIEW Introduction Amifampridine is an orally available potassium channel blocker that increases acetylcholine in synaptic clefts of peripheral nerve endings and is used to treat the Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome. Amifampridine is associated with a low rate of transient serum enzyme elevations during therapy but has not been linked with instances of clinically apparent acute liver injury. Background Amifampridine (am" i fam' pri deen) is a diaminopyridine that acts on peripheral potassium channels and is used to treat the Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome, a rare form of myasthenia suspected to be autoimmune in nature. The inhibition of the potassium channel on neuromuscular junctions causes depolarization of the presynaptic membrane resulting in prolonged action potentials and increased release of acetylcholine in the synaptic cleft. This increase in acetylcholine alleviates some of the neuromuscular dysfunction of myasthenia which is caused by defects in acetylcholine signaling. In small open-label and randomized controlled trials, amifampridine was found to alleviate the myasthenic symptoms in patients with the rare Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome, but did not reverse the condition or its associated autoimmunity. In 2018, amifampridine was approved as symptomatic therapy for Lambert-Eaton syndrome in adults and is available in scored tablets of 10 mg under the brand name Firdapse. In 2019, amifampridine was approved as symptomatic therapy for Lambert-Eaton syndrome in children and became available as scored 10 mg tablets under the brand name Fuzurgi. The recommended starting dose is 15 to 30 mg in 3 to 4 divided doses daily with dose increases of 5 mg and a maximum total dose of 80 mg daily. A reduced dose is recommended for children weighing less than 45 kilograms. Common side effects are paresthesia, upper respiratory symptoms, abdominal pain, nausea, diarrhea, headache, back pain, hypertension and muscle spasm. Rare, but potentially serious adverse events include seizures and hypersensitivity reactions. Hepatotoxicity Serum ALT elevations were not reported in the prelicensure studies of amifampridine but were reported as occurring in a small proportion of patients in safety reviews by the Food and Drug Administration. Nevertheless, there have been no reports of clinically apparent liver injury associated with its use. Thus, liver injury from amifampridine must be rare if it occurs at all. Likelihood score: E (unlikely cause of clinically apparent liver injury, but
