NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: amifampridine, liver, myasthenic, injury, liver injury, myasthenia, syndrome, lambert-eaton, drug, therapy, study, pmid, pubmed pmid, pubmed, myasthenic syndrome


liver injury associated with its use. Thus, liver injury from amifampridine must be rare if it occurs at all. Likelihood score: E (unlikely cause of clinically apparent liver injury, but experience with its use is limited). 2 LiverTox Mechanism of Injury The mechanism by which amifampridine might cause liver injury is not known. It is extensively metabolized by the liver largely by N-acetyltransferase (NAT) to an inactive metabolite. The NAT gene is highly polymorphic and activity rates range from slow to fast. Persons who are slow acetylators have 3- to 5-fold higher plasma levels efficacy or safety of amifampridine to a major extent. Drug Class: Myasthenia Agents PRODUCT INFORMATION REPRESENTATIVE TRADE NAMES Amifampridine – Generic, Firdapse®, Ruzurgi® DRUG CLASS Myasthenia Agents COMPLETE LABELING Product labeling at DailyMed, National Library of Medicine, NIH CHEMICAL FORMULA AND STRUCTURE DRUG CAS REGISTRY NUMBER MOLECULAR FORMULA STRUCTURE Amifampridine 54-96-6 C5-H7-N3 ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY References updated: 15 May 2019 Zimmerman HJ. Hepatotoxicity: the adverse effects of drugs and other chemicals on the liver. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott, 1999. Amifampridine 3 (Textbook of hepatotoxicity published in 1999, before the availability of amifampridine, does not discuss myasthenic syndromes and their therapy). Kaplowitz N, DeLeve LD, eds. Drug-induced liver disease. 3rd ed. Amsterdam: Elsevier, 2013. (Textbook of hepatotoxicity published in 2013, does not discuss amifampridine or other drugs for myasthenic syndromes). Taylor P. Anticholinesterase Agents. In, Brunton LL, Hilal-Dandan R, Knollman BC, eds. Goodman & Gilman's the pharmacological basis of therapeutics. 13th ed. New York: McGraw-Hill, 2018, pp. 163-75. (Textbook of pharmacology and therapeutics). FDA. Available at: (FDA Drug Approvals website that has product labels [package inserts], letters of approval and full FDA scientifi c review of the new drug application for safety and efficacy; mentions that safety data were based upon 2 controlled withdrawal studies in 79 adults and that elevated liver enzymes occurred in 7 patients [13%], but all were self-limited and not accompanied by symptoms or jaundice). Chalasani N, Bonkovsky HL, Fontana R, Lee W, Stolz A, Talwalkar J, Reddy KR, et al; United States Drug Induced Liver Injury Network. Features and outcomes of 899 patients with drug-induced liver injury: Th e DILIN Prospective Study. Gastroenterology. 2015;148:1340–52.e7. PubMed PMID: 25754159. (Among 899 cases of drug induced liver injury enrolled in a US prospective study between 2004 and 2013, none were attributed to drugs used for myasthenic syndromes such as amifampridine). Verma S, Mazell SN, Shah DA.
