Somatostatinoma
KEYWORDS: pubmed, neuroendocrine, somatostatin, somatostatinoma, syndrome, tumors, treatment, patients, pancreatic, free, pmc free, free article, pmc, article, article pubmed


ABSTRACT Somatostatin-secreting tumors, or somatostatinomas represent less than 1% of functioning gastrointestinal neuroendocrine neoplasms (NENs) and their estimated incidence is about 1 in 40 million individuals per year. The spectrum of the somatostatinoma syndrome consists of diabetes mellitus, diarrhea/steatorrhea, cholelithiasis, hypochlorhydria, and weight loss. Tumors that demonstrate D-cell differentiation based on immunohistochemical labelling with somatostatin but lack symptoms of somatostatinoma syndrome, such as those observed within the ampulla and duodenum, should be designated as somatostatin-producing well-differentiated NENs and are not considered somatostatinomas. Hereditary pancreatic somatostatin-producing well-differentiated NENs can be found as part of multiple neuroendocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) and von-Hippel Lindau (VHL) syndrome, whereas duodenal (peri-ampullary somatostatin-producing NENs can be found in patients with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1). The polycythemia-paraganglioma-somatostatinoma syndrome is a rare syndrome including multiple paragangliomas, duodenal somatostatin-producing NENs (exclusively found at the ampulla of Vater) associated with high erythropoietin (polycythemia) underlying paraganglioma/pheochromocytoma. The diagnosis of a somatostatinoma requires measuring fasting plasma somatostatin hormone concentration. A 3-phase CT, MRI, positron emission tomography (PET)-CT with gallium-labelled somatostatin analogs, or endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) should be performed for the precise localization of somatostatinomas in the pancreas or duodenum. A biopsy or surgical resection is required for grading (Ki67 index) and immunohistochemistry for somatostatin expression on tumor samples. Management of somatostatinomas includes medical treatment of the excess somatostatin production, surgical and/or radiological interventions, peptide receptor radiotherapy and targeted or cytotoxic therapies. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION The tetradecapeptide somatostatin is the main peptide released from somatostatinomas. This hormone was successfully isolated in 1973 by Paul Brazeau and colleagues in the research group of the French-US endocrinologist and Nobel prize laureate Roger Guillemin ( 1 ). Somatostatin inhibits numerous endocrine and exocrine secretory functions. Almost all gut hormones are inhibited by somatostatin, including insulin, glucagon, gastrin, secretin, and gastric inhibitory polypeptide (GIP). In addition to inhibition of the endocrine secretions, somatostatin has direct effects on a number of other target organs. For example, it is an inhibitor of gastric acid and pancreatic enzyme secretion, it has marked effects on gastrointestinal transit time, intestinal motility, and absorption of nutrients from the small intestine. In the nervous system, somatostatin acts as a neurotransmitter or neuromodulator and its roles in the fine-tuning of neuronal activity and involvement in synaptic plasticity and memory formation are now widely recognized ( 2 ). In 1977,
