Somatostatinoma
KEYWORDS: pubmed, neuroendocrine, somatostatin, somatostatinoma, syndrome, tumors, treatment, patients, pancreatic, free, pmc free, free article, pmc, article, article pubmed


a neurotransmitter or neuromodulator and its roles in the fine-tuning of neuronal activity and involvement in synaptic plasticity and memory formation are now widely recognized ( 2 ). In 1977, the groups of the Danish physician Lars-Inge Larsson and that of the US physician Om P. Ganda independently reported the first two cases of pancreatic somatostatinoma ( 3 , 4 ). In 1979, a full description of the somatostatinoma syndrome caused by a periampullary neuroendocrine tumor was reported by the Austrian gastroenterologist Günter Krejs and colleagues ( 5 , 6 ). Since then, numerous cases have been reported until present, most of them being sporadic, but some of them now being recognized as part of classic or emerging genetic syndromes. Somatostatinomas are very rare neuroendocrine neoplasms (NENs); their estimated incidence is about 1 in 40 million individuals per year in the general population and they account for less than 1% of functioning pancreatic neuroendocrine neoplasms (PanNENs). These panNENs can arise throughout the pancreas, but approximately two thirds involve the head of this organ ( 7 ).The mean patient age at diagnosis is 55 years and these tumors occur more commonly in females ( 7 - 9 ). CLINICAL PRESENTATION Although somatostatinomas secrete somatostatin, clinical presentations related to high somatostatin levels are found in less than 5% of cases. This may depend on the location of the NEN (generally pancreatic), as well as intermittent somatostatin secretion from the NEN ( 3 , 9 ). The spectrum of the somatostatinoma syndrome consists of diabetes mellitus, diarrhea/steatorrhea, cholelithiasis, hypochlorhydria, and weight loss. This implies that the majority of somatostatinomas do not present with the typical somatostatinoma symptoms, but are silent. Tumors that demonstrate D-cell differentiation based on immunohistochemical labelling with somatostatin but lack symptoms of somatostatinoma syndrome, such as those observed within the ampulla and duodenum, should be designated as somatostatin-producing well-differentiated NENs and are not considered somatostatinomas. Patients harboring these tumors experience symptoms related to the tumor mass effect, their metastases, or the invasion of contiguous structures. Therefore, these silent NENs are generally detected by Computed Tomography (CT), Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) or, on occasion, by Somatostatin Receptor Imaging (SRI) and Endoscopic Ultrasonography (EUS). The most common symptom for all somatostatin-producing well-differentiated NENs is abdominal pain, occurring in over 50% of patients. Duodenal tumors can also present with jaundice and gastrointestinal bleeding ( 9 - 11 ). Secretion of different hormones by
