Somatostatinoma
KEYWORDS: pubmed, neuroendocrine, somatostatin, somatostatinoma, syndrome, tumors, treatment, patients, pancreatic, free, pmc free, free article, pmc, article, article pubmed


NENs is abdominal pain, occurring in over 50% of patients. Duodenal tumors can also present with jaundice and gastrointestinal bleeding ( 9 - 11 ). Secretion of different hormones by the same panNEN, sometimes resulting in two, or more synchronous, or metachronous distinct endocrine syndromes, is now being recognized with increasing frequency. However, second, or metachronous somatostatin secretion has thus far not been recognized. These possibilities should be considered during endocrine work-up and follow-up of patients with panNENs ( 12 , 13 ). Somatostatin has been found in many tissues outside the GI tract. Prominent among those are the hypothalamic and extrahypothalamic regions of the brain, the peripheral nervous system (including the sympathetic adrenergic ganglia), and the C cells of the thyroid gland. Therefore, high plasma concentrations of somatostatin have been found in tumors originating from these tissues ( 14 ). Pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas are other examples of neuroendocrine tumors that produce and secrete somatostatin in addition to other hormonally active substances ( 15 ). However, these tumors do not present with signs or symptoms of the somatostatinoma syndrome. HEREDITARY TUMORS Hereditary pancreatic somatostatin-producing NENs can be found as part of multiple neuroendocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) and von-Hippel Lindau (VHL) syndrome, whereas duodenal, peri-ampullary, somatostatin-producing NENs can be found in patients with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) ( 16 - 20 ). An overview of the MEN1 syndrome is provided in the chapter “MEN1”. Previously known as Von Recklinghausen disease, NF1, the most frequent neuro-cutaneous syndrome, is an autosomal dominant condition. The reported incidence is 1/2500-1/3000 ( 39 , 40 ). The mutation causing the condition is at the level of NF1 gene (on chromosome 17) which induces a malfunction of the RAS/MAPK pathway. The presence of a duodenal somatostatin-producing NEN has a higher risk in NF1 patients than in the general population, but this is not the most prevalent tumor encountered in these patients. Some studies report on the combined diagnosis of GIST and somatostatin-producing NENs in subjects with neurofibromatosis type 1 ( 9 - 11 , 21 - 25 ). The polycythemia-paraganglioma-somatostatinoma syndrome (also called Pacak-Zhuang syndrome) is a rare new syndrome including multiple paragangliomas, duodenal somatostatin-producing NENs, which are exclusively found in the region of the ampulla of Vater, and a high circulating erythropoietin concentration resulting in polycythemia. A gain of function involving the mutation of Endothelial PAS domain-containing protein 1 [EPAS1, also known as hypoxia-inducible factor-2alpha
