Somatostatinoma
KEYWORDS: pubmed, neuroendocrine, somatostatin, somatostatinoma, syndrome, tumors, treatment, patients, pancreatic, free, pmc free, free article, pmc, article, article pubmed


of Vater, and a high circulating erythropoietin concentration resulting in polycythemia. A gain of function involving the mutation of Endothelial PAS domain-containing protein 1 [EPAS1, also known as hypoxia-inducible factor-2alpha (HIF-2alpha)] gene underlies the Pacak-Zhuang syndrome. Moreover, non-mosaicism somatic mutations of HIF-2alpha seem to induce the same syndrome but with late onset. A somatic gain-of-function HIF-2alpha mutation results in the stabilization of HIF-2α, which is known to upregulate the erythropoietin gene accounting for polycythemia in these patients ( 25 - 33 ). However, while the association of somatostatinomas / somatostatin-producing NENs with these inherited disorders is intriguing, a link between the known gene mutations of these disorders with the development of somatostatin-producing NENs has not been clearly established. DIAGNOSIS The diagnosis of somatostatinoma requires the combination of typical clinical signs and symptoms with measuring the fasting plasma somatostatin hormone concentration, which should be at least 3 times over the upper reference value (> 25 pmol/L (> 60 pg/mL). In case of an indeterminate test result, stimulatory examinations such as secretin or calcium stimulation tests can be used, but these tests lack standardization. Anatomic and functional imaging modalities are important in the localization of a somatostatinoma. As in other NENs, 3-phase CT, MRI, or endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) should be performed for the precise localization of these tumors in the pancreas or duodenum. To detect distant metastases, somatostatin receptor imaging should be used as somatostatinomas express high numbers of different somatostatin receptor subtypes. Currently, positron emission tomography (PET)-CT with 68 Ga-labelled somatostatin analogs (DOTATATE, DOTANOC, DOTATOC) has the highest sensitivity for detecting metastases of grade 1-3 panNENs ( 34 , 35 ). In line with the work-up for all NENs, a biopsy is advised to confirm the diagnosis and for grading (Ki67 index), as the grade can influence treatment selection. An overview of the current staging and grading systems is provided in the chapter “Insulinoma” ( 36 ). Generally, though, pathological examination and immunohistochemistry for somatostatin expression on tumor samples after surgery or biopsy confirms the definitive diagnosis. The tumor further shows diffuse positivity for keratins, INSM1 and synaptophysin and is less consistently positive or negative for chromogranin A ( 7 , 9 , 35 , 37 ), see Figure 1 . Figure 1. A malignant metastasizing pancreatic endocrine tumor located in the tail of the pancreas with positive immunohistochemical staining of somatostatin (Courtesy of Günther Klöppel). TREATMENT The management of somatostatinomas
