Somatostatinoma
KEYWORDS: pubmed, neuroendocrine, somatostatin, somatostatinoma, syndrome, tumors, treatment, patients, pancreatic, free, pmc free, free article, pmc, article, article pubmed


Figure 1. A malignant metastasizing pancreatic endocrine tumor located in the tail of the pancreas with positive immunohistochemical staining of somatostatin (Courtesy of Günther Klöppel). TREATMENT The management of somatostatinomas includes medical treatment of the excess somatostatin production, surgical and/or radiological interventions, and cytotoxic therapies when needed ( 35 ). Curative Surgery As for all panNENs, surgery is the only curative treatment. In the occasional patient in whom a somatostatinoma is discovered while the tumor is locoregionally confined, pancreatic or duodenal surgery should be performed to remove the somatostatinoma. In selected patients with limited liver metastases an extended surgical resection can be considered ( 38 ). Liver-Directed Therapy Liver metastases can be resected or treated by bland embolization, radioembolization (SIRT), radiofrequency ablation (RFA), microwave and cryoablation, high-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU), laser, brachytherapy and irreversible electroporation (IRE) depending on local availability ( 39 , 40 ). Unresectable Disease In case of unresectable metastases, treatment is focused on tumor stabilization and symptom reduction by decreasing the secretion of somatostatin. In general, anti-tumor therapy is similar to non-functioning panNENs as specific data for somatostatinoma are often lacking. The guidelines by ENETS, NANETS and ESMO describe the selection and sequencing of somatostatin analogs, targeted therapy, 177 Lu-DOTATATE and cytotoxic chemotherapy ( 41 - 44 ). SOMATOSTATIN ANALOGS Somatostatin analogs became an important treatment option for patients with metastatic or inoperable NENs. First, these analogs provide relief of symptoms in patients with NENs that secrete different peptides causing various clinical symptoms and signs, especially diarrhea and weight loss in somatostatinoma patients ( 45 ). Somatostatin analogs are the first-line palliative treatment of choice to control somatostatin secretion and tumor growth. In a randomized controlled trial (CLARINET), including grade 1-2 pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (NETs - panNETs), lanreotide autogel 120 mg every 4 weeks deep sc was associated with significantly prolonged median progression-free survival (PFS) of 38 months versus 18 months for placebo ( 46 ). BELZUTIFAN In the polycythemia-paraganglioma-somatostatinoma syndrome (Pacak-Zhuang syndrome) treatment with the HIF-2alpha inhibitor Belzutifan resulted in a reduction/normalization of the pathologically elevated levels of normetanephrine, Chromogranin A, Hemoglobin and Erythropoietin ( 47 ). Up to present no effects of this drug have been described on the somatostatin-producing NETs in these patients. Belzutifan is also used for the treatment of tumors in patients with the VHL syndrome ( 48 , 49 ). PEPTIDE RECEPTOR RADIONUCLIDE THERAPY The expression of somatostatin receptor subtypes provides
