Somatostatinoma
KEYWORDS: pubmed, neuroendocrine, somatostatin, somatostatinoma, syndrome, tumors, treatment, patients, pancreatic, free, pmc free, free article, pmc, article, article pubmed


is also used for the treatment of tumors in patients with the VHL syndrome ( 48 , 49 ). PEPTIDE RECEPTOR RADIONUCLIDE THERAPY The expression of somatostatin receptor subtypes provides an opportunity to utilize peptide receptor radionuclide therapy (PRRT) for the treatment of metastatic somatostatinomas. PRRT with 177 Lu-DOTATATE has been approved for the treatment of grade 1-2 panNETs. In general, the response rate for grade 1-2 panNETs is the highest of all NETs (55%), with a median progression-free survival (PFS) of 30 months and median overall survival (OS) of 71 months. Sub-acute toxicity mainly includes nausea, vomiting, and criteria for adverse events (CTCAE) grade 3/4 toxicity of hematologic parameters (10%). In 70% of patients with toxicity, the hematologic parameters normalize but 1% of patients treated with PRRT develops acute leukemia, and 2% myelodysplastic syndrome ( 50 ). In patients with uncontrollable hypersecretion by hormone-producing panNENs, PRRT with 177 Lu-DOTATATE can result in amelioration of the hormonal syndrome ( 51 ). However, data of PRRT with 177 Lu-DOTATATE for the treatment of metastatic somatostatinoma are not available yet. EVEROLIMUS Everolimus is an oral drug which inhibits mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling. In the RADIANT-3 trial, everolimus 10 mg/day increased progression-free survival in grade 1-2 panNETs to 11.0 months as compared to 4.6 months with placebo. Also, overall survival did increase from 37.6 to 44 months. In this study 24% of patients had a functioning grade 1-2 panNET including somatostatinoma ( 52 ). As everolimus can also worsen diabetes mellitus by reducing insulin secretion from the pancreas and inducing insulin resistance, its contribution to the treatment of somatostatinoma patients is still unclear. SUNITINIB Sunitinib is currently one of the other options for treatment of grade 1-2 panNETs which progress during treatment with a first generation long-acting somatostatin analog. In the SU011248 trial sunitinib 37.5 mg/day increased progression-free survival to 11.4 months in comparison to 5.5 months with placebo in patients with predominantly grade 1-2 panNETs. Overall survival also increased from 29.1 to 38.6 months. In this trial, only one patient with a somatostatinoma was included in the treatment arm ( 53 , 54 ). CHEMOTHERAPY Chemotherapy is also effective for the treatment of panNEN but no specific data for somatostatinoma are available ( 42 , 55 , 56 ). REFERENCES 1. de Herder WW, Rehfeld JF, Kidd M, Modlin IM. A short history of neuroendocrine tumours and their peptide hormones.
