NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: liver, injury, liver injury, amiloride, induced, drug, pubmed, pmid, pubmed pmid, induced liver, drug induced, diuretic, drug-induced, diuretics, acute


Other Drugs in the Subclass: Eplerenone, Spironolactone, Triamterene CASE REPORT Case 1. Amiloride/hydrochlorothiazide induced acute liver injury.(1) A 37 year old man with hypertension developed jaundice and hepatitis 2 months after starting the combination of amiloride (2.5 mg) and hydrochlorothiazide (25 mg). On examination, he was jaundiced and had mild fever o (37.6 C), but no rash or organomegaly. Laboratory testing showed serum bilirubin of 5.8 mg/dL with marked elevations in serum aminotransferase levels (Table). White blood cell counts, eosinophil counts, prothrombin time, and serum albumin were normal. Tests for hepatitis B and for autoantibodies were negative. Magnetic resonance imaging of the liver and biliary system were normal. The diuretics were stopped, but liver tests worsened for the next three weeks, serum bilirubin rising to as high as 28.3 mg/dL. A liver biopsy showed an intrahepatic cholestasis typical of drug induced hepatic injury with some degree of bile duct injury. Prednisolone (60 mg daily) was initiated, and he improved slowly. Four months later and 6 weeks after stopping prednisolone therapy, he was asymptomatic, but serum enzyme levels were still mildly elevated. A note in follow up mentioned that he developed pancytopenia and was retreated with corticosteroids, but that serum bilirubin and aminotransferase levels were normal. Key Points Medication: Amiloride (2.5 mg) and hydrochlorothiazide (25 mg daily) Pattern: Hepatocellular (R=32.5) Severity: 3+ (jaundice, hospitalization) Latency: 2 months Recovery: Incomplete at 4 months Other medications: None Laboratory Values Time After Time After ALT Alk P Bilirubin* Comments Starting Stopping U/L) (U/L) (mg/dL) 8 weeks 0 2930 494 11.1 Diuretics stopped 9 weeks 1 week 1466 351 18.5 Liver biopsy 11 weeks 3 weeks 697 309 28.3 Prednisolone started 5 months 3 months 29 176 1.5 Prednisolone stopped 6 months 4 months 196 225 1.5 Normal Values <50 <275 <1.2 * Converted from µmol/L to mg/dL. Comment This patient developed an acute hepatitis-like illness followed by deep jaundice 2 months after starting a combination of amiloride and a thiazide diuretic for hypertension. A liver biopsy suggested bile duct paucity and Amiloride 3 the course was typical with prolonged jaundice and persistent alkaline phosphatase elevations in follow up. Th e course was complicated by the development of pancytopenia during recovery. It is not clear whether the amiloride or the hydrochlorothiazide was responsible for the hepatic injury (and the bone marrow failure). Certainly, other cases of thiazide diuretic induced liver injury have been quite different
