Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: china, chinese, human, ticks, species, tick-borne, babesia, province, rickettsia, infections, tick, liu, fever, borrelia, chin


free information in English and Mandarin on the novel coronavirus COVID- 19. The COVID-19 resource centre is hosted on Elsevier Connect, the company's public news and information website. Elsevier hereby grants permission to make all its COVID-19-related research that is available on the COVID-19 resource centre - including this research content - immediately available in PubMed Central and other publicly funded repositories, such as the WHO COVID database with rights for unrestricted research re-use and analyses in any form or by any means with acknowledgement of the original source. These permissions are granted for free by Elsevier for as long as the COVID-19 resource centre remains active. Review Emerging tick-borne infections in mainland China: an increasing public health threat Li-Qun Fang*, Kun Liu*, Xin-Lou Li, Song Liang, Yang Yang, Hong-Wu Yao, Ruo-Xi Sun, Ye Sun, Wan-Jun Chen, Shu-Qing Zuo, Mai-Juan Ma, Hao Li, Jia-Fu Jiang, Wei Liu, X Frank Yang, Gregory C Gray, Peter J Krause, Wu-Chun Cao Since the beginning of the 1980s, 33 emerging tick-borne agents have been identifi ed in mainland China, including Lancet Infect Dis 2015; eight species of spotted fever group rickettsiae, seven species in the family Anaplasmataceae, six genospecies in the 15: 1467–79 syndrome. In this Review we have mapped the geographical distributions of human cases of infection. 15 of the October 7, 2015 S1473-3099(15)00177-2 described. The non-specifi c clinical manifestations caused by tick-borne pathogens present a major diagnostic challenge *Contributed equally and most physicians are unfamiliar with the many tick-borne diseases that present with non-specifi c symptoms in the State Key Laboratory of early stages of the illness. Advances in and application of modern molecular techniques should help with identifi cation Pathogen and Biosecurity, of emerging tick-borne pathogens and improve laboratory diagnosis of human infections. We expect that more novel Beijing Institute of tick-borne infections in ticks and animals will be identifi ed and additional emerging tick-borne diseases in human Microbiology and Epidemiology, Beijing, China beings will be discovered. X-L Li MS, H-W Yao MS, Introduction spotted fever group rickettsiae (SFGR);5–11 three species R-X Sun BS, Y Sun BS, that can transmit pathogens to human beings and are Candidatus Neoehrlichia mikurensis18 in the family second only to mosquitoes as vectors of infectious Anaplasmataceae; six genospecies in the complex Prof W-C Cao PhD); College diseases in the world.1 Tick-borne infections are zoonoses Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato;19–23 11 species of Babesia;24–33 of Public Health and
