Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: china, chinese, human, ticks, species, tick-borne, babesia, province, rickettsia, infections, tick, liu, fever, borrelia, chin


the the illness. The wide distributions of the 33 emerging seasonal pattern of tick-borne diseases. An increase in tick-associated agents and their tick vectors, in addition winter temperatures is known to cause the northward to the diversity of tick species throughout mainland China, imply that reported cases of infection might be only the tip of the iceberg in regard to the actual number Search strategy and selection criteria of tick-borne diseases. To develop a reasonable diff erential diagnosis and identify a specifi c pathogen, laboratory We searched PubMed and ISI Web of Science for articles diagnostic methods that are rapid, convenient, and published in English, and WanFang database, China National practical are urgently needed for these emerging tick- Knowledge Infrastructure, and Chinese Scientifi c Journal borne diseases. Although great progress has been made Database for articles published in Chinese between in mainland China in the detection and identifi cation of Jan 1, 1980, and May 31, 2015. We used the following search various tick-borne pathogens and diagnosis of the terms: “tick-borne disease”, “tick-borne zoonosis”, “tick-borne infections they cause, the necessary technologies are still zoonotic disease”, “tick-associated agent”, “tick-associated unavailable in most general hospitals. Unfortunately, the microbe”, and “China”, in combination with each of the fi ve importance of tick-borne diseases to human and animal genera of tick-borne agents. We did a secondary manual health has not been suffi ciently recognised as a result of search of the references cited in these articles to fi nd relevant inaccessibility to laboratory tests for aetiological diagnosis articles. We investigated all the articles related to detection, and inadequate surveillance activities. identifi cation, or infections of these fi ve genera of tick-borne In China, 18 tick-borne agents have been detected in microbes in human beings, ticks, and animals. We contacted ticks or animals, including four Rickettsia species, two the corresponding authors for detailed information such as Ehrlichia species, an Anaplasma species, three genospecies the time of discovery, location, and origin of tick-borne of B burgdorferi sensu lato, and eight Babesia species; agents if any of this information was missing in the articles. however, the full eff ect of their pathogenicity to human 1474 www.thelancet.com/infection Vol 15 December 2015 Review beings is still to be established. Despite increasing the Basic Work on Special Program for Science & Technology Research Allergy and Infectious Diseases (5R01AI083640 to XFY). The funders of natural cycle of these agents and the
