Bookshelf_NBK1250
KEYWORDS: cftr, pathogenic, variants, cystic, fibrosis, cystic fibrosis, testing, genetic, individuals, variant, disease, pancreatic, chloride, pathogenic variants, table


for bowel obstruction; standard treatments for gastroesophageal r eflux disease; oral ursodiol for biliary sludging/obstruction; liver transplant when indicated; management of CF- related diabetes mellitus by an endocrinologist; assisted reproductive technologies (ART) for infertility; salt and water supplementation; standard treatments for associated mental health issues. Surveillance: Frequent assessment by a CF specialist to monitor for new or worsening manifestations; pulmonary function testing frequently after age five years; chest radiograph or chest CT examination to assess for bronchiectasis every two years or as needed; cultures of respiratory tract secretions at least every three months; non-tuberculosis mycobacterium culture and serum IgE annually or as indicated; annual CBC with differenti al; annual ENT assessment; monitoring growth and GI manifestations at each visit; fecal elastase as needed; annual serum vitamin A, D, E, and PT (as a marker of vitamin K); annual liver function tests; annual random glucose, annual two-hour glucose tolerance test beginning at age ten years; DXA scan as needed in adolescence; infertility assessment as needed; annual electrolytes, BUN, and creatinine; annual assessment of depression and anxiety. Agents/circumstances to avoid: Environmental smoke, exposure to respiratory infections, dehydration. Evaluation of relatives at risk: Molecular genetic testing of at-risk sibs (if the pathogenic variants in the family are known) or sweat chloride testing of at-risk sibs (if the pathogenic variants in the family are not known) to identify as early as possible those who should be referred to a CF center for initiation of early treatment. Genetic counseling CF is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. If both parents are known to be heterozygous for a CFTR pathogenic variant, each sib of an affected individual has at conception a 25% chance of being affected, a 50% chance of being heterozygous, and a 25% chance of inheriting neither of the familial pathogenic variants. Once the CFTR pathogenic variants have been identified in an affected family member, targeted heterozygote testing for at-risk relatives and prenatal/preimplantation genetic testing for CF are possible. Diagnosis al 2017b, Sosnay et al 2017]. Suggestive Findings Scenario 1: Abnormal newborn screening (NBS) result • NBS for CF is based on quantification of immunoreactive trypsinogen (IRT) and subsequent molecular testing including either CFTR targeted analysis or sequence analysis on dried blood spots. • Elevated IRT values with or without the presence of CFTR pathogenic variants are considered out of range and require diagnostic sweat chloride testing. Scenario 2: Symptomatic individual not diagnosed during
