Bookshelf_NBK1250
KEYWORDS: cftr, pathogenic, variants, cystic, fibrosis, cystic fibrosis, testing, genetic, individuals, variant, disease, pancreatic, chloride, pathogenic variants, table


causing CFTR variant and one CFTR variant of uncertain significance) does not establish or rule out the diagnosis (see Nasal Transmembrane Epithelial Potential Difference). Newborn Screening (NBS) NBS for CF has been universal in the United States since 2010; IRT is measured in a blood sample in all newborns born in the US. Infants with CF have increased IRT levels as a result of inspissated secretions in pancreatic ducts leading to an increase of trypsinogen in the blood. Further testing for newborns with elevated IRT varies by state NBS program; follow-up testing may include a second IRT, targeted DNA analysis for common CF-causing CFTR variant(s), or sequence analysis of CFTR. Infants with an elevated IRT should have a sweat chloride test [Rosenfeld et al 2016]. 4 GeneReviews ® Sweat Chloride Testing Sweat chloride testing, the gold standard for diagnosis of CF, requires appropriate techniques; within the US, it should be performed at a center accredited by the CF Foundation [LeGrys et al 2007]. Sweat chloride testing in an infant with an elevated IRT should be completed before 28 days of life to ensure prompt treatment of affecte d infants. A normal sweat chloride is <30 mmol/L; an intermediate sweat chloride is 30-59 mmol/L; an elevated sweat chloride diagnostic of CF is ≥60 mml/L. Molecular Genetic Testing Approaches include single-gene testing and use of a multigene panel: • Single-gene testing. Sequence analysis of CFTR is performed first to detect missense, nonsense, and splice site variants and small intragenic deletions/insertions. Note: Depending on the sequencing method used, single-exon, multiexon, or whole-gene deletions/duplications may not be detected. If only one or no CF- causing variant is detected by the sequencing method used, the next step is to perform gene-targeted deletion/duplication analysis to detect exon and whole-gene deletions or duplications. Note: Targeted analysis for pathogenic variants can be performed first in individuals of Amish, Ashkenazi Jewish, Faroe Islander, Hutterite, or Zuni ancestry (see Table 8). • A multigene panel that includes CFTR and other genes of interest (see Differential Diagnosis) may also be considered. Note: (1) The genes included in the panel and the diagnostic sensitivity of the testing used for each gene vary by laboratory and are likely to change over time. (2) Some multigene panels may include genes not associated with the condition discussed in this GeneReview; thus, clinicians need to determine which multigene panel is most likely to identify the genetic
