Bookshelf_NBK1250
KEYWORDS: cftr, pathogenic, variants, cystic, fibrosis, cystic fibrosis, testing, genetic, individuals, variant, disease, pancreatic, chloride, pathogenic variants, table


the major cause of morbidity and mortality in people with CF. Without adequate ion transport out of the respiratory epithelium via the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) chloride channel, the airway surface layer is not well hydrated. The resulting thickened airway surface layer attracts bacteria; subsequent white blood cell reaction leads to bronchiectasis (an abnormal dilatation of the airways). Bronchiectasis may be detected in infants as early as age ten weeks [Sly et al 2013]. Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis, caused by a hypersensitivity reaction to Aspergillus fumigatus, is monitored by testing of serum IgE. Additional complications from airway damage include hemoptysis and pneumothorax. Progression to severe lung disease occurs in many people with CF, in whom lung transplantation is a treatment option. Infections. Specific to CF, gram-negative bacteria infections (e.g., Pseudomonas aeruginosa) are especially common. People with CF can also have infections from Staphylococcus aureus, methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, Alcaligenes xylosoxidans, Hemophilus influenzae , and other bacteria in their airways. Bacterial infections accelerate CF lung disease. When the bacterial load is elevated, pulmonary exacerbations occur, characterized by increased cough and sputum production, decreased contribute to the decline in lung function over time [Waters et al 2012]. Transmission of bacteria between people with CF has been documented; thus, contact precautions should be used when treating all people with CF [Saiman et al 2014]. Otolaryngology. Many people with CF have nasal and sinus complications. Anatomic differences in individuals with CF (e.g., sinus hypoplasia, medial bowing of the lateral nasal wall, lower fovea ethmoidalis) and thickened nasal secretions lead to chronic rhinosinusitis and diffuse pansinusitis, both of which can affect quality of life. 6 GeneReviews ® Additionally, nasal polyps can lead to nasal obstruction. Hearing loss is more common in individuals with CF as a result of medication side effects (e.g., intravenous aminoglycosides) and is not directly related to disease pathophysiology. Pancreatic Exocrine pancreatic insufficiency. Inspissated secretions within the pancreatic ducts block passage of the pancreatic enzymes into the intestines, where they aid in nutrient digestion. Instead, the enzymes autodigest the pancreas, with ultimate interstitial fibrosis leading to pancreatic insufficiency (PI). As a result of inadequate poor weight gain, and growth deficiency [Sathe & Freeman 2016]. Pancreatitis. Pancreatitis is more likely to occur in individuals with milder CFTR pathogenic variants classifie d as pancreatic sufficient (PS; 10.3%) versus individuals with pancreatic insufficient (PI; 0.5%) CFTR variants (see Genotype-Phenotype Correlations) [Sathe &
