Bookshelf_NBK1250
KEYWORDS: cftr, pathogenic, variants, cystic, fibrosis, cystic fibrosis, testing, genetic, individuals, variant, disease, pancreatic, chloride, pathogenic variants, table


2014, Moran et al 2018]. Additional endocrine-related complications in individuals with CF include delayed puberty and delayed linear growth with reduced adult height [Blackman & Tangpricha 2016]. Musculoskeletal Osteopenia and osteoporosis develop in individuals with CF as a result of multiple contributing factors (e.g., nutritional deficiencies, inflammation, altered sex steroids) [Blackman & Tangpricha 2016]. Cystic Fibrosis 7 Clubbing is apparent when the finger- and toenail beds become convex, leading to a "club"-shaped distal digit. Hypertrophic osteoarthropathy characterized by a combination of clubbing, increased periosteal reaction of tubular bones, arthralgia, and synovial effusions also occurs as a result of CF-related pulmonary disease. Additional musculoskeletal manifestations include arthritis and thoracic postural defects (e.g., thoracic kyphosis, scoliosis) [Botton et al 2003]. Genitourinary Fertility is altered in both men and women with CF. Men with CF often have congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens (CBAVD) [Yu et al 2012]. Thi s congenital hypoplasia or aplasia usually occurs bilaterally but may occur unilaterally. When the vas deferens are absent, atrophic, or fibrotic, men will have obstructive severe oligospermia or azoospermia. CFTR has also been shown to play a role in spermatogenesis; reduced CFTR expression in men with CBAVD undergoing sperm retrieval has been associated with low sperm count and concentration, decreased motility, decreased bicarbonate sensitivity, and lower fertilization rates. However, most men with CF are infertile but not sterile because testicular development and spermatogenesis can be normal [Shteinberg et al 2021]. Based on this pathophysiology, men with CF are often still able to have biological children through assisted reproductive technology. Women with CF are typically fertile. However, abnormal, pH imbalanced, and thickened cervical mucus contribute to reduced fertility and infertility in some women with CF [Shteinberg et al 2019, Jain et al 2022]. Women with severe illness, malnutrition, and reduced body mass index may be anovulatory [Shteinberg et al 2021]. Until recent years, pregnancy rates in people with CF had remained relatively stable. With the introduction of highly effective CFTR modulator therapy, the rate of pregnancies has increased; more than 600 pregnancies were reported in women with CF (ages 14 to 45 years) in 2020 and 2021, which was more than twice the pregnancies reported in 2019 [Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Patient Registry 2020, Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Patient Registry 2021]. Salt Loss Syndrome People with CF are at increased risk for excessive sodium chloride loss across various epithelial surfaces. This is particularly true during infancy
