Bookshelf_NBK1250
KEYWORDS: cftr, pathogenic, variants, cystic, fibrosis, cystic fibrosis, testing, genetic, individuals, variant, disease, pancreatic, chloride, pathogenic variants, table


Fibrosis Foundation Patient Registry 2021]. Salt Loss Syndrome People with CF are at increased risk for excessive sodium chloride loss across various epithelial surfaces. This is particularly true during infancy and during episodes of sweating, vomiting, or diarrhea. Infants are at increased risk during the transition from human milk or infant formulas to baby food because of the lack of added salt in commercially available baby foods. Because of increased salt losses, people with CF are at increased risk for developing hyponatremic, hypochloremic dehydration. Chronically depleted levels of total body sodium can lead to chronic metabolic alkalosis. Children, adolescents, and adults must monitor dietary salt intake particularly in hot and humid climates and during periods of increased sweating (e.g., physical exercise, illness). Mental Health Anxiety and depression are increasingly recognized as major complications of CF. Elevated levels of anxiety have been reported in as high as 22% of the adolescent population and 32% of the adult population, while depression has been reported in as high as 10% of the adolescent population and 19% of the adult population. These rates of increased depression and anxiety are two to three times higher than community samples [Quittner et al 2014]. Palliative care in CF focuses on reducing physical and emotional symptoms and improving quality of life [Kavalieratos et al 2021]. Palliative care occurs alongside usual treatments and is individualized according to the unique goals, hopes, and values of each person [Dellon et al 2018]. One specific area that palliative care can aid in improving the quality of life for people with CF is related to pain, since 60%-89% of children and adults in various studies have reported pain [Masson et al 2017]. 8 GeneReviews ® Prognosis Among people with CF born between 2017 and 2021, the median predicted survival is to age 53 years – an increase of ten years compared to those born between 2012 and 2016 [Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Patient Registry 2021]. Heterozygotes Individuals with bronchiectasis, allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis, asthma, chronic rhinosinusitis / nasal polyposis, atypical mycobacterial infections, and aquagenic palmoplantar keratoderma are more likely to be heterozygous for a CFTR pathogenic variant [Hsu et al 2013, Gamaletsou et al 2018, Raynal et al 2019, Çolak et al 2020, Izquierdo et al 2022]. Approximately 15% of individuals with acute recurrent pancreatitis (24/155 individuals) or chronic pancreatitis (22/146 individuals) were heterozygous for a CFTR pathogenic variant [Kumar et al 2016]. Genotype-Phenotype Correlations
