Bookshelf_NBK1250
KEYWORDS: cftr, pathogenic, variants, cystic, fibrosis, cystic fibrosis, testing, genetic, individuals, variant, disease, pancreatic, chloride, pathogenic variants, table


al 2022]. Approximately 15% of individuals with acute recurrent pancreatitis (24/155 individuals) or chronic pancreatitis (22/146 individuals) were heterozygous for a CFTR pathogenic variant [Kumar et al 2016]. Genotype-Phenotype Correlations The Clinical and Functional Translation of CFTR website provides genotype-phenotype information for CFTR pathogenic variants including sweat chloride, lung function, pancreatic status, and pseudomonas infection rates. The strongest genotype-phenotype correlations have been identified in the context of pancreatic function. Th e most common CFTR pathogenic variants have been classified as pancreatic sufficient (PS) or pancreatic insufficient (PI). Individuals who are PS usually have one or two PS alleles, indicating that PS alleles are dominant with respect to pancreatic phenotype [Rueda-Nieto et al 2022]. Beyond pancreatic function, genotype does not consistently predict phenotype. Pulmonary disease severity varies widely among individuals with identical genotypes (see Molecular Genetics, Genetic Modifiers). CFTR pathogenic variants associated with protein trafficking, channel gating, and channel conductance have approved targeted therapies. See Table 5 and Jia & Taylor-Cousar . Prevalence CF affects at least 100,000 individuals worldwide, with 40,000 individuals in the US [Guo et al 2022]. CF affec ts individuals of all ages, with more than 50% of people with CF in the US being older than age 18 years [Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Patient Registry 2020]. The incidence of CF is increased in several populations (e.g., Amish, Ashkenazi Jewish, Hutterite) due to the presence of pathogenic founder variants (see Table 8). However, CF occurs in individuals of all ethnicities. Genetically Related (Allelic) Disorders Cystic fibrosis-related metabolic syndrome / cystic fibrosis screen positive indeterminate diagnosis (CRMS/ CFSPID). The diagnosis of CRMS (in the US) and CFSPID (in Europe), now known as CRMS/CFSPID, is given to asymptomatic infants with an elevated trypsinogen on newborn screening and either [Barben et al 2021]: • A normal sweat chloride (<30 mmol/L) and biallelic CFTR variants including at least one variant of uncertain significance; OR • An intermediate sweat chloride (30-59 mmol/L) and heterozygous or no CF-causing CFTR variant(s) identified. will become symptomatic and/or develop an elevated sweat chloride test and require treatment for CF [Borowitz et al 2009a, Bombieri et al 2011, Ren et al 2017]. Cystic Fibrosis 9 CFTR-related disorders (CFTR-RD) include disorders associated with biallelic CFTR pathogenic variants but without additional clinical manifestations of CF. • CFTR-related isolated congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens (CFTR-CBAVD) is the most common CFTR-RD. Isolated CBAVD usually results from compound heterozygosity for a
