Bookshelf_NBK1250
KEYWORDS: cftr, pathogenic, variants, cystic, fibrosis, cystic fibrosis, testing, genetic, individuals, variant, disease, pancreatic, chloride, pathogenic variants, table


and wheezing during infancy. Gastrointestinal or nutritional manifestations that are typically present in infants with CF are not seen in children with congenital airway anomalies. Primary biliary atresia. Rarely, individuals with CF may present in infancy with symptoms of biliary obstruction without other clinically apparent GI or respiratory manifestations. Serum levels of immunoreactive trypsinogen and stool levels of elastase should be normal in infants with primary biliary atresia, whereas CF liver disease is invariably associated with evidence of pancreatic duct obstruction. Management Evaluations Following Initial Diagnosis To establish the extent of disease and needs in a newborn diagnosed with cystic fibrosis (CF), the evaluations summarized in Table 4a (if not performed as part of the evaluation that led to the diagnosis) are recommended. For those individuals diagnosed after the newborn period, the evaluations summarized in Table 4b are recommended [Borowitz et al 2009b, Lahiri et al 2016]. Table 4a. Recommended Evaluations Following Initial Diagnosis of Cystic Fibrosis in Newborn Period System/Concern Evaluation Comment • Assess growth (weight, length, head General circumference). • Refer to CF specialist. Can be obtained while on pancreatic enzyme Pancreatic Fecal elastase measurement replacement therapy To inform affected persons & families re nature, MOI, Genetic counseling Genetic counseling by genetics professionals 1 & implications of CF to facilitate medical & personal decision making 2 CF = cystic fibrosis; MOI = mode of inheritance 2. Langfelder-Schwind et al Table 4b. Recommended Evaluations Following Initial Diagnosis of Cystic Fibrosis After the Newborn Period System/Concern Evaluation Comment • Assess growth (weight, length, head circumference). General • Refer to CF specialist. • Pulmonary function testing Pulmonary • Respiratory culture for CF-specific pathogens by expectorated sputum or deep oropharyngeal swab Assess fat-soluble vitamin levels (vitamins A, E, & D, & PT as a marker of vitamin K). Pancreatic Can be obtained while on pancreatic Fecal elastase enzyme replacement therapy Liver Liver function tests: AST, ALT, alk phos, GGT, bilirubin, albumin Electrolytes / Serum electrolytes, BUN, & creatinine Salt loss 14 GeneReviews ® Table 4b. continued from previous page. System/Concern Evaluation Comment To inform affected persons & families re Genetic nature, MOI, & implications of CF to Genetic counseling by genetics professionals 1 counseling facilitate medical & personal decision making 2 alk phos = alkaline phosphatase; ALT = alanine aminotransferase; AST = aspartate aminotransferase; BUN = blood urea nitrogen; CF = cystic fibrosis; GGT = gamma-glutamyl transferase; MOI = mode of inheritance;
