Bookshelf_NBK1250
KEYWORDS: cftr, pathogenic, variants, cystic, fibrosis, cystic fibrosis, testing, genetic, individuals, variant, disease, pancreatic, chloride, pathogenic variants, table


[Shteinberg et al 2021]. Additionally, case reports of women with Burkholderia cepacia have been associated with more rapid rates of lung function decline during pregnancy [Jain et al 2022]. Pregnancy is not associated with long-term negative effects on pulmonary and nutritional outcomes or an increased risk of death [Schechter et al 2013, Taylor-Cousar 2020]. Preconception • Females with CF of reproductive age should receive preconception counseling and take steps to optimize health prior to pregnancy. • Maternal and fetal complications are high in women with CF who have received lung transplantation. Open and extensive discussions should be held between the transplant recipient and her care team prior to conception [Jain et al 2022]. • As in pregnancies of women with other forms of diabetes mellitus, fetal outcome is optimized when glycemic control is achieved prior to pregnancy. During pregnancy • The management of pregnancy and the immediate postpartum period for a woman with CF requires a al 2022]. • Special attention should also be paid to supplementation of the fat-soluble vitamin A during pregnancy, as supratherapeutic levels may be teratogenic. Iron and folate supplementation recommendations in pregnant women with CF are similar to those in women without CF [Jain et al 2022]. • While there are no concerning signals in animal reproductive models for CFTR modulator therapy, 2020]. Risks and benefits of continuing CFTR modulator therapy during pregnancy should be discussed with a CF specialist [Taylor-Cousar 2020]. The multicenter prospective observational study entitled Maternal and Fetal Outcomes in the Era of Modulators (MAYFLOWERS; NCT04828382) is currently enrolling subjects to further address the effect of CFTR modulators on pregnancy and postpartum outcomes. 20 GeneReviews ® • Maternal nutritional status and weight gain should be monitored and optimized aggressively, and pulmonary exacerbations should be treated early. • Gestational diabetes is common in pregnancies of women with CF. Traditional screening paradigms for gestational diabetes mellitus may not be useful in pregnancies of women with CF; therefore, screening at each trimester of pregnancy has been suggested to improve the detection of diabetes mellitus [Jain et al 2022]. Insulin is the first-line agent for glycemic control in CFRD and in gestational diabetes in women with CF [Jain et al 2022]. Delivery • Mode of delivery is based on usual obstetric indications, with vaginal delivery being the most common mode of delivery in women with CF [Shteinberg et al 2021]. • During the postpartum period, it
