Bookshelf_NBK1250
KEYWORDS: cftr, pathogenic, variants, cystic, fibrosis, cystic fibrosis, testing, genetic, individuals, variant, disease, pancreatic, chloride, pathogenic variants, table


is based on usual obstetric indications, with vaginal delivery being the most common mode of delivery in women with CF [Shteinberg et al 2021]. • During the postpartum period, it is important to support early mobilization and maintain good airway clearance practices, which can continue to be challenging with the demands of childcare [Taylor-Cousar 2020, Shteinberg et al 2021]. Adequate pain management and airway clearance must also be a focus for women who deliver by cesarean section. Breastfeeding • Review medications for risk of transfer in breast milk. Most medications used in the long-term management of CF are considered safe. The major exceptions to this are immunosuppressants (importantly, in transplant recipients), azoles, and tetracyclines. Animal reproductive models have shown the presence of modulators in the breast milk of lactating animals [Taylor-Cousar 2020]. • Women with CF will need to consider the choice of breastfeeding based on the ability to maintain weight in the face of the high caloric demands associated with breastfeeding and the need to resume medications that may be transferred to the infant through breast milk [Taylor-Cousar 2020]. Therapies Under Investigation Therapeutic interventions for CF are continually evolving (see cff.org). Restoration of CFTR function continues to advance with improved modulators and gene therapy. Modulator therapy studies include using approved medications in individuals of younger ages and testing new modulators, once-daily dosing, and new combination therapies. Therapies under study that focus specifically on the approximately 10% of individuals who are not eligible for current therapy due to nonsense or rare variants that do not produce any CFTR protein include read-through agents and gene therapy. Read-through agents are particularly interesting as a treatment for those with nonsense variants. Gene therapy is an area of active research, ranging from DNA based (both integrating and nonintegrating), RNA therapy, gene editing (such as CRISPR), and antisense oligonucleotide therapy. The Infection Research Initiative from the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation is investigating a range of topics, including understanding CF-specific microorganisms, improving diagnosis and detection, optimizing current treatment, developing new antimicrobials, and evaluating the long-term effects of antimicrobial use. One exciting area of infection research related to bacteriophage therapy is the use of viruses to target difficult-to-treat bacteria. Many other areas of CF research are also under way, such as mucociliary clearance modalities, anti- inflammatory agents, and nutritional treatments. Search ClinicalTrials.gov in the US and EU Clinical Trials Register in Europe for access to information on clinical
