Bookshelf_NBK1250
KEYWORDS: cftr, pathogenic, variants, cystic, fibrosis, cystic fibrosis, testing, genetic, individuals, variant, disease, pancreatic, chloride, pathogenic variants, table


way, such as mucociliary clearance modalities, anti- inflammatory agents, and nutritional treatments. Search ClinicalTrials.gov in the US and EU Clinical Trials Register in Europe for access to information on clinical studies for a wide range of diseases and conditions. Cystic Fibrosis 21 Genetic Counseling Genetic counseling is the process of providing individuals and families with information on the nature, mode(s) of inheritance, and implications of genetic disorders to help them make informed medical and personal decisions. Th e following section deals with genetic risk assessment and the use of family history and genetic testing to clarify genetic status for family members; it is not meant to address all personal, cultural, or ethical issues that may arise or to substitute for consultation with a genetics professional. —ED. Mode of Inheritance Cystic fibrosis (CF) is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Risk to Family Members of a Proband with CF Parents of a proband • The parents of an affected individual are presumed to be heterozygous for a CFTR pathogenic variant. • Molecular genetic testing is recommended for the parents of the proband to confirm that both parents are heterozygous for a CFTR pathogenic variant and to allow reliable recurrence risk assessment. • If a pathogenic variant is detected in only one parent and parental identity testing has confirmed biological maternity and paternity, it is possible that one of the pathogenic variants identified in the proband occurred as a de novo event in the proband or as a postzygotic de novo event in a mosaic parent [Jónsson et al 2017]. If the proband appears to have homozygous pathogenic variants (i.e., the same two pathogenic variants), additional possibilities to consider include: ⚬ A single- or multiexon deletion in the proband not detected by sequence analysis that resulted in the artifactual appearance of homozygosity; ⚬ Uniparental isodisomy for the parental chromosome with the pathogenic variant that resulted in homozygosity for the pathogenic variant in the proband. • Heterozygotes are at increased risk for bronchiectasis, allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis, asthma, chronic rhinosinusitis / nasal polyposis, aquagenic palmoplantar keratoderma, acute recurrent pancreatitis, chronic pancreatitis, atypical mycobacterial infections, and bronchiectasis [Hsu et al 2013, Gamaletsou et al 2018, Raynal et al 2019, Çolak et al 2020, Izquierdo et al 2022, Polgreen & Comellas Sibs of a proband • If both parents are known to be heterozygous for a CFTR pathogenic variant, each sib of an affected individual has
