Bookshelf_NBK1250
KEYWORDS: cftr, pathogenic, variants, cystic, fibrosis, cystic fibrosis, testing, genetic, individuals, variant, disease, pancreatic, chloride, pathogenic variants, table


al 2022, Polgreen & Comellas Sibs of a proband • If both parents are known to be heterozygous for a CFTR pathogenic variant, each sib of an affected individual has at conception a 25% chance of being affected, a 50% chance of being heterozygous, and a 25% chance of inheriting neither of the familial pathogenic variants. • Heterozygotes are at increased risk for bronchiectasis, allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis, asthma, chronic rhinosinusitis / nasal polyposis, aquagenic palmoplantar keratoderma, acute recurrent pancreatitis, chronic pancreatitis, atypical mycobacterial infections, and bronchiectasis [Hsu et al 2013, Gamaletsou et al 2018, Raynal et al 2019, Çolak et al 2020, Izquierdo et al 2022, Polgreen & Comellas Offspring of a proband • An individual with CF will transmit a CFTR pathogenic variant to all offspring. The risk that offspring will inherit a second CFTR pathogenic variant depends on the genetic status of the reproductive partner. • If the reproductive partner of a proband is heterozygous for a CFTR pathogenic variant, offspring are at a 50% risk of being affected and a 50% risk of being heterozygous. 22 GeneReviews ® • It is appropriate to offer carrier testing to the reproductive partner of an individual with CF (see Population Screening). Note: While CF occurs in individuals of all ethnicities, the incidence of CF is increased in several populations (e.g., Amish, Ashkenazi Jewish, Hutterite) due to the presence of pathogenic founder variants (see Table 8). Other family members. Each sib of the proband's parents is at a 50% risk of being a carrier of a CFTR pathogenic variant. Heterozygote Detection Targeted heterozygote testing for at-risk relatives requires prior identification of the CFTR pathogenic variants in the family. Related Genetic Counseling Issues See Management, Evaluation of Relatives at Risk for information on testing at-risk relatives for the purpose of early diagnosis and treatment. Family planning • The optimal time for determination of genetic risk and discussion of the availability of prenatal/ preimplantation genetic testing is before pregnancy. • It is appropriate to offer genetic counseling (including discussion of carrier testing, potential risks to offspring, and reproductive options) to young adults who are affected, are carriers (heterozygotes), or are at risk of being carriers. • Females with CF of reproductive age should receive preconception counseling and take steps to optimize health prior to pregnancy (see Pregnancy Management). DNA banking. Because it is likely that testing methodology and our understanding of genes, pathogenic
