Bookshelf_NBK1250
KEYWORDS: cftr, pathogenic, variants, cystic, fibrosis, cystic fibrosis, testing, genetic, individuals, variant, disease, pancreatic, chloride, pathogenic variants, table


receive preconception counseling and take steps to optimize health prior to pregnancy (see Pregnancy Management). DNA banking. Because it is likely that testing methodology and our understanding of genes, pathogenic mechanisms, and diseases will improve in the future, consideration should be given to banking DNA from probands in whom a molecular diagnosis has not been confirmed (i.e., the causative pathogenic mechanism is unknown). For more information, see Huang et al . Population Screening Carrier screening for CF is offered to all women who are pregnant. Per NSGC Practice Guidelines, carrier (heterozygote) testing for CF should also be offered preconceptionally to women of all ancestries who are of reproductive age, to the reproductive partners of individuals who are heterozygous for a CFTR pathogenic variant or who are affected with CF, and to family members of an individual with CF. A core panel of 23 CFTR pathogenic variants has been recommended by the ACMG for pan ethnic targeted carrier screening. Comprehensive CF testing can also be considered for pan ethnic carrier screening, particularly for individuals of non-northern European descent [Deignan et al 2020]. Prenatal Testing and Preimplantation Genetic Testing High-risk pregnancies. Once the CFTR pathogenic variants have been identified in an affected family member, prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing for CF are possible [Kessels et al 2020]. Note: Noninvasive prenatal testing for CF is also becoming more common. Cystic Fibrosis 23 Low-risk pregnancies. The finding of fetal echogenic bowel and/or intestinal loop dilatation and nonvisualization of the fetal gallbladder (NVFGB) on ultrasound examination is associated with an increased risk for CF in a pregnancy previously not known to be at increased risk for CF. The risk for CF ranges from 0.5% to 9.9% in fetuses with hyperechogenic bowel [Ameratunga et al 2012, Masini et al 2018, D'Amico et al 2021]. Fetuses with NVFGB and associated anomalies have a 16-fold higher risk for CF [Di Pasquo et al 2019]. In this situation, genetic counseling of the parents regarding the risk for CF is appropriate, followed by CFTR molecular genetic testing of the parents and/or the fetus, depending on the gestational age of the pregnancy and the decision of the parents. Differences in perspective may exist among medical professionals and within families regarding the use of prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing. While most health care professionals would consider use of prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing to be a personal decision, discussion of these issues
