Bookshelf_NBK1250
KEYWORDS: cftr, pathogenic, variants, cystic, fibrosis, cystic fibrosis, testing, genetic, individuals, variant, disease, pancreatic, chloride, pathogenic variants, table


use of prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing. While most health care professionals would consider use of prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing to be a personal decision, discussion of these issues may be helpful. Resources GeneReviews staff has selected the following disease-specific and/or umbrella support organizations and/or registries for the benefit of individuals with this disorder and their families. GeneReviews is not responsible for the • Cystic Fibrosis Canada Canada Phone: 800-378-2233 www.cysticfibrosis.ca • Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Phone: 800-344-4823; 301-951-4422 Email: www.cff.org • Genetic Disorders of Mucociliary Clearance Consortium gdmcc.rarediseasesnetwork.org • MedlinePlus Cystic Fibrosis • Newborn Screening in Your State Health Resources & Services Administration newbornscreening.hrsa.gov/your-state Molecular Genetics Information in the Molecular Genetics and OMIM tables may differ from that elsewhere in the GeneReview: tables may contain more recent information. —ED. Table A. Cystic Fibrosis: Genes and Databases Gene Chromosome Locus Protein Locus-Spec ific HGMD ClinVar Databases 24 GeneReviews ® Table A. continued from previous page. CFTR 7q31.2 Cystic fibrosis Cystic Fibrosis CFTR CFTR transmembrane Mutation Database conductance regulator Locus Spec ific Mutation Database Directory CFTR2 Data are compiled from the following standard references: gene from HGNC; chromosome locus from OMIM; protein from UniProt. Table B. OMIM Entries for Cystic Fibrosis (View All in OMIM) 219700 CYSTIC FIBROSIS; CF 602421 CYSTIC FIBROSIS TRANSMEMBRANE CONDUCTANCE REGULATOR; CFTR Molecular Pathogenesis CFTR encodes cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), an integral membrane protein that functions as a regulated chloride channel located at the apical membrane of epithelia, transporting chloride ions into and out of cells. Once chloride is transported out of the cell, sodium will join, forming sodium chloride (salt), which attracts water. CFTR maintains the balance of salt and water. CFTR is important in many organs, most specifically the respiratory, gastrointestinal, genitourinary, and endocrine systems and the sweat ducts. Loss-of-function CFTR variants disrupt transepithelial chloride transport. Without chloride, sodium will not form salt and water will not be attracted. In most organs, this leads to excessively thick secretions and tissue damage. For example, in the lungs, thick mucus is an excellent milieu for bacteria, which the body attempts to fight with inflammation, leading to the vicious cycle of mucus production, infection, inflammation, and pulmonary damage (e.g., bronchiectasis). In the pancreas, thick secretions block the exocrine pancreatic ducts, preventing passage of pancreatic enzymes and creating pancreatic insufficiency. Secretion blockage causes pathology in many organs (e.g., liver disease, infertility/subfertility, bowel obstruction, pansinusitis). The CFTR chloride
