Intraoperative fluorescence angiography for the evaluation of coronary artery bypass graft
KEYWORDS: procedure, graft, patients, patency, coronary, bypass, graft patency, information, intraoperative, evidence, artery, studies, coronary artery, flow, overview


patency 1 Guidance 1.1 Current evidence on intraoperative fluorescence angiography suggests that the procedure is safe enough for routine use in the evaluation of coronary artery bypass graft patency. 1.2 There is limited evidence on the diagnostic utility (that is, the extent to which knowledge of its results improves patients' outcomes) of this procedure, and clinicians should therefore audit and review the clinical value of intraoperative fluorescence angiography in all patients having the investigation. NICE may review the procedure upon publication of further evidence. 2 The procedure 2.1 Indications 2.1.1 Coronary artery bypass grafting is one of the most common cardiac surgical interventions. In this procedure, a section of vessel from another part of the body is used to reroute (bypass) blood around a blocked coronary artery and improve blood flow to the heart. Early blockage of the graft and poor blood flow may be a significant cause of morbidity and mortality in patients who have undergone coronary artery bypass grafting. 2.1.2 Several techniques are used intraoperatively to assess graft patency. These include digital palpation, electromagnetic flow measurement, Doppler studies, and conventional and thermal coronary angiography techniques. A limitation with many of the imaging techniques is that they provide poor resolution and definition of the grafts. 2.2 Outline of the procedure 2.2.1 Intraoperative fluorescence angiography allows confirmation of the location of the coronary arteries and assessment of bypass graft function during coronary artery bypass procedures. The intraoperative fluorescence imaging system consists of a video camera and a laser diode that emits monochromatic light. The camera, guided by a range-detector diode, is positioned a safe distance above the heart. A small amount of indocyanine green (ICG) dye is then administered as a central venous injection. This dye fluoresces when illuminated using laser energy and the images are recorded digitally. Currently the technique is only semiquantitative, in that it permits assessment of graft flow as 'excellent', 'satisfactory' or 'poor' – it cannot provide an exact measure of graft flow. The penetrating depth of the laser beam is only around 1 mm, limiting the use of this technique to certain grafts. For more details, see the overview. 2.3 Efficacy 2.3.1 The evidence on efficacy is based on four case series studies, with three studies reporting on clinically relevant results. In one study, intraoperative graft patency was assessed in 200 patients: graft patency was confirmed in 192 patients (96%), and the additional information provided
