Lamin A/C Cardiomyopathies (Cardiolaminopathies) - Cardiovascular Disorders
KEYWORDS: patients, cardiac, cardiomyopathy, ventricular, lamin, genetic, heart, testing, family, icd, risk, failure, genetic testing, dilated, heart failure


Lamin A/C cardiomyopathies are genetic disorders that cause dilated cardiomyopathy, a variety of arrhythmias, conduction disorders, and an increased risk of sudden death. Diagnosis includes ECG, cardiac imaging, and genetic testing. Treatment is usually an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD), antiarrhythmic medications, and standard measures for heart failure. (See also Overview of Arrhythmogenic Cardiomyopathies and Overview of Arrhythmias) Lamin A and lamin C are structural filament proteins in the cell nucleus, encoded by the gene LMNA. Mutations in this gene produce a group of disorders called laminopathies. Many laminopathies cause a severe, usually dilated cardiomyopathy characterized by rapid progression, atrial tachyarrhythmias, atrioventricular (AV) blocks, ventricular tachyarrhythmias, and sudden death. Lamin A/C cardiomyopathies account for about 5 to 10% of inherited dilated cardiomyopathies (1). Most cardiolaminopathies have autosomal dominant inheritance with high penetrance; thus, patients' family members are often affected. Some LMNA mutations are associated with other disorders, including certain muscular dystrophies (eg, Emery-Dreifuss dystrophy), peripheral neuropathies, premature ageing, and metabolic abnormalities (eg, insulin resistance, hypertriglyceridemia, lipodystrophy). Symptoms and Signs of Lamin A/C Cardiomyopathy Patients usually present first with symptoms of heart blocks and/or arrhythmias, including palpitations, syncope, or cardiac arrest. Age at presentation is typically < 40 years. Heart failure manifestations (eg, exertional dyspnea, fatigue, peripheral edema) typically develop later, but timing is variable. A significant number of patients also have skeletal muscle symptoms (eg, weakness), which may precede cardiac manifestations. Diagnosis of Lamin A/C Cardiomyopathy ECG Cardiac imaging (eg, echocardiography, cardiac MRI) Genetic testing Screening of first-degree family members Diagnosis is suspected in young patients with palpitations, syncope, or resuscitation from unexplained cardiac arrest, particularly if they also have early-onset conduction system disease, supraventricular or ventricular arrhythmias, skeletal muscle weakness, peripheral neuropathy, and/or a family history of arrhythmias and/or heart failure. Patients should have ECG, ambulatory cardiac rhythm monitoring, and cardiac imaging, typically echocardiography and/or cardiac MRI. If conduction disturbances, tachyarrhythmias, and/or cardiomyopathy are detected, genetic testing is done. The yield of genetic testing rises from 5% to 10% in the general population of patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy to approximately one third in patients with AV conduction disturbances and a family history of cardiomyopathy (1). As described above, first-degree family members of patients have a significant risk of disease. Thus, they should have clinical evaluation (ie, to detect symptoms suggestive of arrhythmia, muscle weakness, and/or heart failure), ECG, ambulatory cardiac rhythm monitoring, and echocardiography initially and then every 1 to
