Lamin A/C Cardiomyopathies (Cardiolaminopathies) - Cardiovascular Disorders
KEYWORDS: patients, cardiac, cardiomyopathy, ventricular, lamin, genetic, heart, testing, family, icd, risk, failure, genetic testing, dilated, heart failure


they should have clinical evaluation (ie, to detect symptoms suggestive of arrhythmia, muscle weakness, and/or heart failure), ECG, ambulatory cardiac rhythm monitoring, and echocardiography initially and then every 1 to 3 years. Genetic testing is done if the index case has a mutation identified. Family members who are not carriers of that mutation do not require ongoing testing. Treatment of Lamin A/C Cardiomyopathy Moderation of physical activity Usually an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) Sometimes antiarrhythmic medication therapy Heart failure therapy (including transplantation) as required Treatment focuses on prevention of sudden death and prevention of symptomatic ventricular tachyarrhythmias. Patients should avoid athletic exertion because such activities may hasten the progression of the cardiomyopathy and may foster life-threatening arrhythmias. The 5-year risk of a first episode of life-threatening arrhythmia ranges from approximately 4% to 50% depending on sex, non-missense LMNA mutation, AV block (first-degree or higher degrees), nonsustained ventricular tachycardia, and left ventricular ejection fraction. An online risk calculator for patients who have not yet had a life-threatening arrhythmia is available (1). Because of a high risk of sudden death, an ICD is typically implanted earlier in the course of illness in patients with lamin A/C cardiomyopathies than in others with dilated cardiomyopathy (see table Indications for an ICD). Established indications for ICD use include patients with (2) Dilated cardiomyopathy plus left ventricular ejection fraction of < 35% Sustained ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation Resuscitated cardiac arrest Placement of an ICD may also be useful (class IIa recommendation) for patients with lamin A/C cardiomyopathy who have (2) Unexplained syncope An independent indication for a permanent pacemaker ≥ 2 other risk factors for sudden death (intermediate left ventricular ejection fraction in the range of 35% to 44%, male sex, nonsustained ventricular tachycardia) A beta-blocker should be used in most patients but may increase the possibility of AV block. Antiarrhythmic pharmacotherapy with a class III medication , particularly sotalol or amiodarone, may reduce symptomatic ventricular tachyarrhythmias but is not a substitute for an ICD. However, these medications may benefit patients who have frequent appropriate ICD discharges despite adequate beta-blocker therapy. Standard measures for treatment of dilated cardiomyopathy are used as required. Lamin A/C cardiomyopathies are genetic disorders that cause tachyarrhythmias, heart blocks, and heart failure. Some of the mutations also affect skeletal muscle. Diagnosis is based on clinical and electrocardiographic factors, cardiac imaging, and genetic testing. First-degree family members have a significant risk of disease
