Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, hospitals, district, care, hospital, services, costs, countries, data, quality, level, cost, resources, developing, district hospitals


The District Hospital Mike English, Claudio F. Lanata, Isaac Ngugi, and Peter C. Smith administered treatment to highly specialized intervention and providing poor quality care (Barnum and Kutzin 1993) dependent on professionals with many years of training and a may reflect deficiencies in the entire health system as well as the system to optimize the magnitude and distribution of active, continuing process that must often proceed incre- etary levels, geography, and human resources capacity.While optimal balance is not likely to be achieved naturally recognizing that other paradigms are possible and valid, we through neglect or reliance on market mechanisms. generally adopt this optimization perspective in our discus- sions because it combines broad social (including user) and Hospitals are major consumers ofhealth budgets.However, political dimensions with systematic economic principles when there is a paucity of good evidence—even in industrial decisions are made in a competitive, resource-constrained countries—on their effect (McKee and Healy 2002),whereas environment. Following such logic, it should be possible to the body of theory and opinion on their role is wide. This within a balanced system ofcare for any particular setting. include,among others,the political and social value ofhospi- and political pressures is somewhat different.This perspective 1999; World Bank 1993). The chapter first introduces basic does,nevertheless,suggest some common principles involved concepts relevant to district hospitals that may affect their role in defining the optimum balance ofcare even within groupings and performance and a description of possible core services as diverse as “developing countries.” Two further points are (see figure 65.1). For discussions of the evidence justifying worth considering: inclusion ofan intervention or process as a core service at this level of care, the reader is referred to disease- and service- • First,although the focus ofthis chapter is the district hospi- specific chapters.Although recently attempts have been made to refine definitions ofperformance,the term is system. Choices made in relation to hospitals are likely to used in a general sense, referring to processes and outcomes that contribute to improved levels and distribution of health. programs to improve peripheral clinic referrals of women The chapter then summarizes currently available economic with high-risk pregnancies may result in a paradoxical decline in the quality of care if critical human and other level and acknowledging the difficulty in generalizing findings from one setting to another.An illustration follows ofsome of Demand Supply (inputs) Outputs Peripheral health (Referral Home Hospital unit care) Policy and Direct: regulatory Institutional Individual
