Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, hospitals, district, care, hospital, services, costs, countries, data, quality, level, cost, resources, developing, district hospitals


one tier oflocal government is typically responsible.The 1212 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Mike English, Claudio F. Lanata, Isaac Ngugi, and others shared administrative boundaries and frequent proximity of Average cost district hospitals to district political administrations often result in the district hospital’s involvement in the much wider tasks ofdistrict health management and public health.The per- formance ofthese functions may be critical to the success ofthe Efficiency. Allocative efficiency deals with the desire to allo- cate resources to secure the maximum health benefit from the inputs available . Within this paradigm plan- Economies Diseconomies of scale of scale ners search for the balance between community care,primary the issue ofallocative efficiency arises when decisions must be Scale of activity made to allocate resources to different services.In theory,cost- Source: Adapted from Posnett (2002). effectiveness studies with a global health status outcome meas- ure such as the disability-adjusted life year (DALY) should Figure 65.2 Theoretical Long-Term Average Cost Curve inform debate on allocative efficiency, because such studies provide a direct means ofcomparing alternative strategies. Technical efficiency deals with the extent to which specific of staff salaries and technology), and the pattern of diseases institutions are getting the most out ofthe resources available. vary widely,has not been examined. In discussing economies ofscale,we must consider two fur- in the most effective manner to achieve the desired output? ther issues.First,considerable evidence suggests that the ability Technical efficiency is often measured using partial indica- to specialize and the experience gained with high volumes of tors such as cost per procedure. Interpreting such data often patients can lead to better outcomes for physicians practicing requires great care, but most fundamentally it requires some in larger hospitals.Second,although reducing the number (and comparator,because a way ofknowing the resources needed to increasing the size) ofhospitals may reduce health system costs produce the desired output rarely exists. Thus, technical effi- and improve outcomes,it may shift some costs to patients in ciencyis usually a relative term,and performance indicators— the form of increased travel time or even a reduction in the carefully interpreted—can be used to identify best current practice.New technology or a change in the availability or price concentration ofhospital services may compromise health and of resources may result in continual improvements in what is equity objectives,particularly in rural areas.The planner may achievable, so a process that was technically efficient can need to balance direct health system costs against the
