Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, hospitals, district, care, hospital, services, costs, countries, data, quality, level, cost, resources, developing, district hospitals


grouped with 1214 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Mike English, Claudio F. Lanata, Isaac Ngugi, and others and relatively ineffective;and were rarely protected by powerful Some medical services provide support to a range of depart- professional groups based in the tertiary centers.Their position ments or users and are referred to as cross-cutting services. as an integral part of PHC was reestablished during the 1980s Such services include those aimed at recuperation and rehabil- (Canadian International Development Agency and the Aga itation (physiotherapy,occupational therapy,and so forth;see Khan Foundation 1981; WHO 1987). Currently the district chapter XX; laboratory services, and diagnostic imaging. hospital is envisaged as the apex of the pyramid of primary Whether and to what degree these services are provided may be major determinants ofthe overall range ofservices that can be Motherhood and Integrated Management of Childhood offered, the fixed costs of providing care at district hospitals, Illness. In programs such as Integrated Management of and their cost-effectiveness.Their provision should,therefore, be planned as part ofthe portfolio ofcare to be offered,taking care is explicit ,with priority conditions reflect- into account expected use and estimates of the value added. ing burden-of-disease estimates (Black, Morris, and Bryce This strategy suggests a degree of flexibility that may conflict 2003).Although the effectiveness ofthis approach has yet to be with historical perspectives about what is important and “one size fits all”national policies.Health information systems are ing a basic package ofcare may,in principle,cover the majori- also a critical cross-cutting service; they are discussed in the ty of admitted cases and improve service delivery (Ngoc Anh “Health Information Systems”section ofthis chapter. and Tram 1995).However,without tackling current difficulties It is worth noting here that the concentration in hospitals of cross-cutting resources used by different activities often gives “Information and Integration”later in this chapter). rise to many accounting complications,such as allocating over- Other basic approaches to delivery ofservices at the district head costs,which bedevil attempts to secure meaningful cost comparisons across hospitals. basic package of neonatal care, also show promise (Duke, Willie, and Mgone 2000; Robertson and Molyneux 2001). Wider Role in the District Health System Interventions such as the provision of basic trauma care can effectively be offered only at this level ofthe health system (see District hospitals often house the technical expertise and chapter 68),while in other areas (for example,chapters 26,31, professional authority essential for local implementation of effectiveness is to be maximized. These examples
