Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, hospitals, district, care, hospital, services, costs, countries, data, quality, level, cost, resources, developing, district hospitals


full complement ofspecialist con- ofseeingthatpolicydecisionsareimplemented,theabilityofthe sultants and access to a wide range ofdiagnostic and therapeu- Because resources are scarce, activities with the least tangible often 80 to 150 beds,are run almost entirely by medical assis- benefit—such as supervision and monitoring—are frequently tants and nurses,sometimes lack reliable power or water sup- abandoned,breakingimportantchainsofcommunication. plies,and often offer few or no high-quality modern diagnostic services.This variability makes it daunting to extrapolate find- Health Information Systems. Many national health informa- ings from one setting to another and may seriously undermine tion systems rely on district hospitals to coordinate data col- the value ofattempts to provide useful general descriptions of lection in the district.In theory,for a number of diseases the hospitals. In particular, when interpreting calculated costs of example, for severe diseases such as neonatal tetanus, acute critical points: thus, a core data source supposedly providing burden-of- • Relevant data may often be missing or inadequately defined disease data at greater resolution than is commonly available at a country level. and at a meaningful administrative level if action is required. • Because a number of accepted ways of calculating costs systems are inadequate and inaccurate;staff members are not different methods are likely to lead to different estimates. equipped with the skills necessary to interpret data The particular design used to estimate costs should be con- and are often unaware of their local value, sidered when interpreting any results. monitoring tools.Introducing an information culture and the its resources are used for more than one activity, so unit necessary skills and infrastructure to support such a transition, cost estimates depend crucially on how the costs of these although of potentially enormous value, presents significant resources are allocated among activities. challenges even for middle-income countries. • The relative prices ofinputs can vary substantially between regions and countries. Formulating a Package of Services to Maximize • In the majority of cases, only the cost of care is reported Cost-Effectiveness without reference to outcomes so that the cost per unit of Interventions identified as being cost-effective in particular health benefit (however defined) is unknown. service areas or necessary to preserve the integrity of an effec- • Calculated costs usually reflect the care offered;it may not level.However,the way in which these individual components • Cost estimates cannot indicate the extent ofunmet need or are combined and integrated is also critical.Factors,including other sources ofinequity. economies of scale and scope,whether gains or losses in
