Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, hospitals, district, care, hospital, services, costs, countries, data, quality, level, cost, resources, developing, district hospitals


components • Cost estimates cannot indicate the extent ofunmet need or are combined and integrated is also critical.Factors,including other sources ofinequity. economies of scale and scope,whether gains or losses in effi- • The costs ofcare will depend to some extent on the severity ciency result from integration, and the influence of use and of illness of the patients and,for average costs per bed day, resource availability, will all have a profound influence on on the variety and relative proportions ofdifferent illnesses whether the district hospital itselfis as cost-effective as the sum (the case mix). These areas are rarely commented on or ofits parts suggests it should be. adjusted for. 1216 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Mike English, Claudio F. Lanata, Isaac Ngugi, and others availabledatasuggestthathospitalsateveryleveltakentogether Data on the levels of service provision for many developing consume50to60percentofrecurrentnationalhealthbudgets, countries are crude. In the absence of any more meaningful withtheproportionappearingtoincreaseascountriesbecome data,the number ofbeds is most often used as a (poor) substi- richer (Barnum and Kutzin 1993). If private expenditure on tute. Bearing this weakness in mind, sources estimate the healthcare(insuranceandoutofpocket)isincluded,thepro- portionof totalhealthexpenditureconsumedbyallhospitals ulation in developing countries (World Bank 2002), a figure falls to 30 to 50 percent of the total in developing countries probably declining in many developing countries (Hensher and (excludingSouthAmerica)(Mills1990a).Whereasthesefigures others 1999),with varying estimates ofthe average number of reflecttotalhospitalsectorexpenditure,thelimiteddataavail- doctors from 0.5 per 1,000 population in low-income countries ablesuggestthatdistricthospitalsmayreceivelessthan50per- generally (World Bank 2002) to 0.09 doctors per 1,000 popula- centofthistotalinmanycountries,consumingfewerresources tion in Sub-Saharan Africa (Peters and others 2000). These thansecondaryandtertiaryreferralfacilities(Mills1990a). estimates are considerably lower than the averages for beds anddoctors of7.2 per 1,000 and 2.9 per 1,000,respectively,in high-income countries (World Bank 2002). Although these The Nongovernmental and Private Sectors estimates provide some indication of the major disparities in In many countries (especially in Africa) nongovernmental is limited.Lack of information on the relative distribution of service providers,and private physicians are often as numerous beds and staff by geographic zone, or between district and as those in the public sector.In Kenya,for instance,the number higher referral levels of care in a single country, and the fact ofprivate and nongovernmental hospitals is equal to the num- that bed and staff numbers are probably a poor reflection of ber of public hospitals (Government of Kenya 2001),while in activity make these figures a poor substitute for data on patient Indonesia,32 percent ofhospital beds are private . hospitals.Furthermore,with the concentration on provision of may also
