Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, hospitals, district, care, hospital, services, costs, countries, data, quality, level, cost, resources, developing, district hospitals


Three broad methods of government financing of public erallevelsoftheadministration.However,suchfinancingmight district hospitals are generally used: prospective with a fixed beanessentialprerequisiteofinsurance-basedmechanisms.In budget, prospective with revenue depending on activity, and contrast to fixed budgets,it has the potential for encouraging widely used,often based on historical spending levels,with a the more services it provides. It produces some incentive to (frequently inadequate) provision for price changes.Such a sys- reduceunitcosts.Expenditurecontrolmaybedifficultunlessa tem clearly can secure good expenditure control and is admin- capisputontheaggregatehospitalsectorbudget. istratively undemanding. However, it can often perpetuate Retrospective reimbursement ofactual costs is a discredited historical inequities and fail to respond to new demands and system of financing hospitals because it offers no incentive to priorities.Moreover,fixed budgets offer few incentives to max- control costs or manage demand.In its favor,it may stimulate hospitals (Barnum,Kutzin,and Saxenian 1995). ture of all three payment mechanisms, with broadly fixed Indeed,many budget systems continue to finance hospitals budgets,sometimes adjusted for changes in demand,and some through line-item budgets directly from the ministry ofhealth elementofretrospectivereimbursementforunplannedactivity. or finance. Such mechanisms allow central bureaucracies to In general,no one strategy is perfect.However,the considerable exert the maximum level of control over peripheral spending demands on management for some schemes imply that a with little or no capacity at peripheral levels for flexible use of global budget,ideally based on population needs,in conjunc- funds in response to local needs.Thus,centralized budget sys- tion with some form ofquality-monitoring system may be the tems can contribute to technical inefficiency by preventing most appropriate way forward for many developing countries local managers from optimizing the deployment of inputs.In (Barnum,Kutzin,and Saxenian 1995). contrast, global fixed budgets provide for central control of Mechanisms permitting local income generation (cost total spending but may permit increased independence when recovery, cost sharing, facility improvement funds, and local allocating funds at a local level.Fixed budgets based on capita- taxes) may be superimposed on any of these schemes. Such tion payments can be more sensitive to local needs than incre- devices can help countries shift toward a local, more needs- mental budgeting and can contribute toward equity objectives. based allocation offinancing and help promote accountability 1220 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Mike English, Claudio F. Lanata, Isaac Ngugi, and others Box 65.1 Hospital Performance: Perspectives from a Sub-Saharan African Country Caretaker (C) and health worker (HW) experiences of then you sell it before you go.”(C) (Peterson and others hospital care: 2004). “When the doctor realized my child was breathless
