Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, hospitals, district, care, hospital, services, costs, countries, data, quality, level, cost, resources, developing, district hospitals


and resulting in bypassing of the PHC level of care,is or all sectors. The crisis of inadequate personnel in low- inefficient. It has been proposed that hospitals be specifically incomecountries,whichlimitstherange,quality,andquantity prevented from delivering PHC services . of services that can be offered, has been described However,the view that patients who bypass PHC increase the (Narasimhan and others 2004). However, imbalances in the costs to the provider may not always be true (Siddiqui and oth- within-country distribution of staff members are less well ers 2001).Patients may also choose to bypass the district hos- publicized and equally damaging. All the factors mentioned the costs ofcare ifthe condition could have been treated in the developing countries and are major barriers to implementing lower-level facility.The perceived quality ofcare at the district potentially valuable interventions at an operational level level may be a major determinant of this behavior,with some (Oliveira-Cruz, Hanson, and Mills 2001). New interventions data suggesting that improved district services increase use must therefore often be considered in the light of existing rates (Barnum and Kutzin 1993), potentially making district (ratherthanoptimal)levelsofserviceprovisionandperform- hospitals more cost-effective but more costly. ance.Littleliteratureisavailableonthesepublicchoicefeatures ofdecisionmaking. The Supply of Services A fundamental role of policy makers is to determine the geo- EFFECTING CHANGE WITH CROSS-CUTTING graphical distribution of hospitals and the functions they INTERVENTIONS should undertake. These decisions are often severely circum- scribed by topography,historical accident,and political imper- So far this chapter has outlined concepts fundamental to atives,as well as by the level and quality of resources that are understanding the position,functions,and performance ofthe building on an existing structure ofadministration and capital (though limited) data on costs and cost-effectiveness. that may not be in any sense optimal. Operating at the interface between primary care—aimed often Nevertheless,many ofthe factors determining the quality of at the poor—and the more Western biotechnological model of supply are theoretically under the influence of local manage- care at secondary and tertiary levels—often more accessible to ment personnel,who are in a potentially powerful position to the better off—district hospitals are easy to ignore because they poor training,and inadequate supervision among many other the following: factors may all conspire to prevent health workers from execut- ing their duties effectively or even at all.Those factors may,in • explicit policy decisions about the services that should be turn,result in less demand for services from consumers,who offered at this level and about the balance between primary paradox resulting from this decline
