Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, hospitals, district, care, hospital, services, costs, countries, data, quality, level, cost, resources, developing, district hospitals


decisions about the services that should be turn,result in less demand for services from consumers,who offered at this level and about the balance between primary paradox resulting from this decline is that the hospital may provided 1222 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Mike English, Claudio F. Lanata, Isaac Ngugi, and others • national strategies on the distribution of services that evidence of benefit particularly when part of a broadly based encompass all providers approach (Grol and Grimshaw 2003). District hospitals in • commitment to provision and equitable distribution of developing countries have largely missed out on this revolu- essential human resources and supplies tion,which may be ofparticular value in settings where care by • systems for monitoring hospital performance in terms of nonspecialists with little or no access to recent information is efficiency and quality and for intervention when perform- the norm. ance is poor. Information and Integration interventions that might improve performance can be consid- Although much focus is given to technological development in ered. The focus here is on cross-cutting interventions rather the fields of diagnosis,treatment,and imaging,relatively little than condition-specific or service area–specific interventions attention is paid to the potential for technology to change the described elsewhere. Cross-cutting interventions seem to be collection and use of information,despite the possibly major rarely prioritized but have the ability to add value in many effect on improving administrative and clinical management. areas and are perhaps critical when thinking of developing an As at the primary care level,where many of the interventions improved health system. are currently available to achieve significant reductions in mor- tality (Claesen and others 2003),many of the tools that could be used to improve health are well known at the district hospi- Human Resources tal level.Making better use ofthese tools through more reliable Key issues that affect district hospitals are the quantity and provision, better training, improved information collection, quality of personnel and their range of skills. Staff members on-the-spot analysis ofdata,and real-time use ofthe results for should be appropriate to the tasks they are asked to perform. service planning might be both possible and of considerable iary staff members with more limited training in district hos- is performing as part of an integrated primary care system is the tide of rising academic requirements often demanded by referral patterns, and on success and the reasons underlying some tasks to lower cadres ofstaffmay be practical and
