Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, hospitals, district, care, hospital, services, costs, countries, data, quality, level, cost, resources, developing, district hospitals


tion visits.A tiered accreditation system was developed to was 60 percent higher than in other regions at the start of promote participation and provide an incentive for the intervention period and fell 25 percent after the inter- improving quality. Results of each evaluation were pre- regions.The inequitable distribution of maternal mortal- tion decisions through an independent institution to gen- ity was narrowed to a 20 percent excess in intervention erate political support. Quality in five areas (correspon- areas.A national demographic and health survey examin- ding to the program aims) was assessed. Significant ing Peru between 1995 and 2000 found a significant over- improvements were observed in the proportion ofindica- all reduction of maternal mortality,increases in prenatal tors achieved in all five aspects of quality evaluated (box care coverage, and a higher proportion of deliveries in figure).An evaluation one year after the end of the pro- health facilities or attended by health professionals. gram found that performance had declined but remained at 60 to 80 percent ofthe levels achieved at accreditation. Sources:Lanata, Butron, and Espino 2002; Ministerio de Salud, Peru 2001. The District Hospital | 1225 butaregivennoprescriptionastowhatformatthateffortmight ing.Researchthatpermitshospitalstotacklethesenewchal- take(Klazinga,Delnoij,andKulu-Glasgow2002). lenges and develop efficient and cost-effective strategies to provide care for HIV-related disease while preventing a THE FUTURE: RESEARCH AND decline in care standards for HIV-uninfected patients is a highpriority. INFORMATION NEEDS Accounting for Case Mix and Case Severity When A few fundamental and urgent needs must be met as a prereq- Measuring Hospital Performance uisite to improving understanding ofdistrict hospitals in low- and middle-income countries, although tackling these issues Overall inpatient-fatality rates and case-fatality rates of differ- may be far from simple: ent common diseases are often included in district hospital performance measures.These are crude measures unless some • developing and accepting meaningful performance indica- adjustment is made for case mix when describing inpatient tors in conjunction with developing appropriate standards fatality and for severity ofillness when describing case fatality. • collecting higher-quality routine data from district hospitals key indicators ofperformance by carefully chosen process indi- quences of different, evidence-based, service provision formance monitoring that offer the advantage of specifically portfolios proposed for district hospitals and improving identifying areas that require improvement (Lilford and others understanding of the marginal benefits of incremental 2004). additionsandtheirimplicationsforplanninginfrastructure Implications of Emerging and Existing Technologies andestimatinghumanresourcesandtechnologyneeds. Technology has had an enormous effect on the amount of A solution to the first issue would perhaps pave the
