Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, hospitals, district, care, hospital, services, costs, countries, data, quality, level, cost, resources, developing, district hospitals


incremental 2004). additionsandtheirimplicationsforplanninginfrastructure Implications of Emerging and Existing Technologies andestimatinghumanresourcesandtechnologyneeds. Technology has had an enormous effect on the amount of A solution to the first issue would perhaps pave the way for information available to clinicians and managers in industrial and enhance the value offurther focused research in a number countries,from new rapid diagnostic tests to automated stock- ofareas. checking and ordering procedures. A particularly exciting potential in developing countries may be the ability to under- Implications of a Changing Disease Spectrum take and interpret many diagnostic tests remotely, thereby Inmanymiddle-incomeandsomelow-incomecountries,the enabling district hospitals to operate without a skilled diagnos- demographic transition to noncommunicable diseases— tic staff on site.It also seems probable that appropriately tar- notably cardiovascular, smoking-related, and malignant dis- geted technology could have a major effect, not least in the chronic diseases become an increasing proportion of inpa- identify and respond to needs. tients(BarnumandKutzin1993).Insomecases,therelative Interventions That Improve Performance cost-effectivenessofhospitalcarewillimprovecomparedwith furtherexpansionofprimaryorpreventiveservicesthatincur Interventions aimed at improving hospital administration and increasingmarginalcosts(BarnumandKutzin1993). clinical management at the district hospital level warrant inves- massive impact of the HIV pandemic is most easily seen in cal guidelines,supervision,and feedback;audit and continuing thecontinent’shospitals.Bedoccupancyisrising,andhospi- professional development;quality improvement strategies and tal stays appear to be lengthening, as an increasing propor- accreditation; and improvements in referral and integration countries’medicalwards,haveHIV-relateddisease(Mpundu relatively cost-effective. Such interventions deserve attention, 2000).ThosediseasesassociatedwithHIVinfection,notably along with more traditional research aimed at optimizing treat- tuberculosis, and changing demands for care, such as the ment ofspecific diseases. need for palliation, may change not only the workload but also the nature of the demands placed on the service. The REFERENCES advent of antiretroviral therapy, which might ameliorate Human Resource Crisis in Africa: An Issues Paper.” Support for hospitalserviceprovisionmechanisms.Withorwithoutnew Research in Africa, U.S. Agency for International Development, drugs, HIV will continue to tax both planners, who have to Washington,DC. 1226 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Mike English, Claudio F. Lanata, Isaac Ngugi, and others Barnum,H.,and J.Kutzin.1993.Public Hospitals in Developing Countries. Font,F.,L.Quinto,H.Masanja,R.Nathan,C.Ascaso,C.Menendez,and Payment Methods.” International Journal of Health Planning and Rights2:4. Management10 (1):23–45. Gani, A. 1996. “Improving Quality in Public Sector Hospitals in Indonesia.”International Journal ofHealth Planning and Management 11 (3):275–96. Analysis ofDistrict and Grant in Aid Hospitals in Gujarat.Ahmedabad: Newhouse and A.J.Culyer.Amsterdam:Elsevier. Bitran,R.1996.“Efficiency and Quality in the Public and Private Sectors in Senegal.”Health Policy and Planning10 (3):271–83. Government ofKenya.2001.“Health Management Information Systems Report for the 1996 to 1999 Period.”Ministry ofHealth,Republic of Black,R.,S.Morris,and J.Bryce.2003.“Where and Why Are 10 Million Kenya,Nairobi.
