Laser-assisted cerebral vascular anastomosis without temporary arterial occlusion
KEYWORDS: patients, anastomosis, procedure, cerebral, bypass, occlusion, intracranial, arterial, wall, graft, efficacy, vessel, artery, temporary arterial, temporary


1 Guidance 1.1 Current evidence on the safety and efficacy of laser-assisted cerebral vascular anastomosis without temporary arterial occlusion is based on very limited numbers of patients. Therefore, the procedure should only be used with special arrangements for clinical governance, consent, and audit or research. 1.2 Clinicians wishing to undertake laser-assisted cerebral vascular anastomosis without temporary arterial occlusion should take the following actions. • Inform the clinical governance leads in their Trusts. • Ensure that patients understand the uncertainty about the procedure's safety and efficacy and provide them with clear written information. In addition, use of NICE's information for the public is recommended. • Audit and review clinical outcomes of all patients having laser-assisted cerebral vascular anastomosis without temporary arterial occlusion (see section 3.1). 1.3 Selection of patients for this procedure should be carried out in the context of a multidisciplinary team including a neurosurgeon and an interventional neuroradiologist. 1.4 Publication of safety and efficacy outcomes will be useful. NICE may review the procedure upon publication of further evidence. 2 The procedure 2.1 Indications and current treatments 2.1.1 Aneurysms and other abnormalities of arteries supplying the brain may be suitable for treatment by open surgery or endovascular techniques, such as insertion of coils or stents. In some cases, arterial bypass of an abnormality may be necessary. This is achieved either by direct anastomosis between branches of the external carotid and internal carotid arteries or by an interposition saphenous vein or radial artery graft. In both techniques there is a risk of stroke as the cerebral blood supply is temporarily occluded while the anastomosis to the intracranial artery is performed. 2.2 Outline of the procedure 2.2.1 The laser-assisted non-occlusive anastomosis technique aims to achieve cerebral arterial bypass without the need for temporary arterial occlusion, thus maintaining cerebral blood flow throughout the procedure. 2.2.2 The procedure is performed under general anaesthesia. The distal (cerebral) anastomosis site is prepared by stitching a platinum ring onto the wall of the recipient vessel. The bypass graft is sutured end-to-side to the recipient vessel outside the ring. A combined laser–vacuum suction catheter is introduced through the bypass graft into the platinum ring on the wall of the recipient vessel. Using vacuum suction and laser pulses, a disc-shaped area is resected in the wall of the recipient vessel. This punched-out disc is withdrawn while still attached to the vacuum catheter, completing the anastomosis without interrupting cerebral blood
