Cardiopulmonary resuscitation
KEYWORDS: cpr, chest, arrest, cardiac, heart, resuscitation, patient, cardiac arrest, blood, medical, services, method, defibrillation, use, advanced


Synonyms and Keywords: Cardiac resuscitation; Cardiac massage; Heart massage resuscitation Chest compression • Rhythmic Abdominal Compressions • Self-CPR • Place in film and television • Application on animals • References • See also Overview Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) is an emergency medical procedure Which can be crucial to save lives. CPR is used for victims of cardiac and respiratory arrest. CPR can be performed in hospitals by medical team, or in the community by laypersons or emergency response professionals. CPR consists of artificial blood circulation and artificial respiration (i.e. chest compression and lung ventilation). CPR is generally continued, usually in the presence of advanced life support, until the patient regains a heart beat (called "return of spontaneous circulation" or "ROSC") or is declared dead. CPR is unlikely to restart the heart, but rather its purpose is to maintain a flow of oxygenated blood to the brain and the heart, thereby delaying tissue death and extending the brief window of opportunity for a successful resuscitation without permanent brain damage. Defibrillation and advanced life support are usually needed to restart the heart. Historical Perspective • CPR has been known in theory, if not practice, for many hundreds or even thousands of years; some claim it is described in the Bible, discerning a superficial similarity to CPR in a passage from the Books of Kings (II 4:34), wherein the Hebrew prophet Elisha warms a dead boy's body and "places his mouth over his". • The association of a dead body with a cooler temperature lead to popular use of heating a body in hopes of bringing it back to life. This idea gave birth to the Heat Method which included applying hot ashes , hot water and even warm animal excreta. • This was followed by the Flagellation Method, which included whipping the patient in attempts to assist them into breathing again . • Bellows Method developed by the German-Swiss physician Paracelsus in the 1500s.[1] This method included using a goldsmiths bellows to fill air into a patients chest . This method was used successfully for centuries. Its success was hampered after a French physician Leroy d’Etiolles, in 1829 explained affects of deleterious affects of barotrauma. • in the 1700s inspired by the Native Americans called Fumigation that involved blowing tobacco up the rectum in hopes to revive the patient. It was later discontinued when the the harmful effects of tobacco were explained by
