Cardiopulmonary resuscitation
KEYWORDS: cpr, chest, arrest, cardiac, heart, resuscitation, patient, cardiac arrest, blood, medical, services, method, defibrillation, use, advanced


Americans called Fumigation that involved blowing tobacco up the rectum in hopes to revive the patient. It was later discontinued when the the harmful effects of tobacco were explained by Benjamin Brodie in 1811.[2] • This was followed by the popularity of hanging a person to expel air out of the lung called Inversion. Roots of this method were inspired from Egyptians used to resuscitate patients after drowning.[1] • Barrel Method entailed putting the victim on barrel and rolling him in an effort to compress the chest. This back and forth motion would expel the air and as the compression is relieved to fill the air chest with fresh air. • Drowning remaining the leading cause of death resulted in the formation of multiple societies which included The Royal Humane Society .They worked on saving people from drowning, freezing,strangulation and poising by noxious gases.Following its formation in time period of 4 Cookies help us deliver our services. By using our services, you agree to our use of cookies. years they claimed that they assisted in saving lives of up-to 150 people. they issued 2/11 recommendations including warming the patient, removing any thing the patient might be choking on, bellows method along with mouth to mouth and mouth to nostril, rectal or oral fumigation using tobacco and bloodletting. • In the 1803 a rather unique method came into being based on therapeutic hypothermia; termed as the Russian Method. This included the burying the victim under a bed of snow. *The Royal Humane Society's methods were challenged in the late 1800 by Marshall Hall. He believed the first step in resuscitation should be return of respiration. He advocated 'proning' based on the principle that laying a person in a supine position would result in the tongue falling back hindering respiration. The weight of the body would help compress the thorax helping with expiration. This was followed by truing the patient to the side in order to relieve the pressure and aid in inspiration. In 1856 he published " The Ready Method of Asphyxia " with some alterations. this emphasized the need to carry it out at any place and time necessary. • However, internal compression to restore circulation remained popular. Igelsurd and Arbuthnoth Lane restored Sign showing old Silvester and Holger- circulation during abdominal or thoracic surgeries via open Nielson methods of resuscitation chest massage of the heart. This procedure had a
