Cardiopulmonary resuscitation
KEYWORDS: cpr, chest, arrest, cardiac, heart, resuscitation, patient, cardiac arrest, blood, medical, services, method, defibrillation, use, advanced


may sustain damage after blood flow has been stopped for about four minutes and irreversible daCmookaigese h aelfpt uesr d aelbivoeru otu sr esevrevince ms. Biyn uustinegs o. uIrf s berlvoicoesd, yfoluo awgr ceee taos oeusr ufsoer o f1 c ooork i2es h. ours, the cells of the 3/11 body die unless they get an adequately gradual bloodflow, (provided by cooling and gradual warming, rarely, in nature [such as in a cold stream of water] or by an advanced medical team). Because of that CPR is generally only effective if performed within 7 minutes of the stoppage of blood flow.[5] The heart also rapidly loses the ability to maintain a normal rhythm. Low body temperatures as sometimes seen in drowning prolong the time the brain survives. Following cardiac arrest, effective CPR enables enough oxygen to reach the brain to delay brain death, and allows the heart to remain responsive to defibrillation attempts. If the patient still has a pulse, but is not breathing, this is called respiratory arrest and artificial respiration is more appropriate. However, since people often have difficulty detecting a pulse, CPR may be used in both cases, especially when taught as first aid (see below). First aid CPR is part of the chain of survival, which includes early access (to emergency medical services), early CPR, early defibrillation, and early advanced care.[6] Some first aid trainers also advocate the performance of CPR as part of the choking protocol, if all else has failed.[7] Sudden cardiac arrest is a leading cause of death, happening to approximately one in 360,000 people per year in the USA.[8] CPR can double or triple the victim's chances of survival when commenced immediately (see 'effectiveness' below). According to United States 'Annals of Emergency Medicine', only 25% of victims of a witnessed cardiac arrest are administered CPR by a bystander, with a further 33% receiving some CPR as a result of dispatcher instructions. This leaves 41% of victims receiving no CPR prior to the arrival of the emergency medical services.[9] Rapid access to defibrillation is also vital. The most common cause of cardiac arrest outside of a hospital is ventricular fibrillation (VF), a potentially fatal arrhythmia that is usually (but not always) caused by a heart attack and is responsive to defibrillation. Other causes of cardiac arrest include drowning, drug overdose, poisoning, electrocution. First aid training CPR is taught to the general public in order
