Cardiopulmonary resuscitation
KEYWORDS: cpr, chest, arrest, cardiac, heart, resuscitation, patient, cardiac arrest, blood, medical, services, method, defibrillation, use, advanced


heart attack and is responsive to defibrillation. Other causes of cardiac arrest include drowning, drug overdose, poisoning, electrocution. First aid training CPR is taught to the general public in order to increase the chance to CPR being performed in the crucial few minutes before emergency personnel are available. Purposes of AHA in 2010 was performing CPR by observer or by the patient with least or even no facilities.[10] CPR is a practical proficiency and needs professional guide followed up by ordered practice on a resuscitation mannequin to gain and maintain full competency. In most CPR classes, a simple mnemonic is used to aid memory of the clinical approach to the unconscious patient and CPR. The most common one used worldwide was ABC which changed to CAB based on AHA guideline since 2010 which stands for Circulation, Airway and Breathing.[10] CPR skills are not confined to medical professionals, but are regularly taught to members of the public. Widespread knowledge of CPR has a community benefit, as CPR must be applied quickly after a patients heart has stopped. Early CPR in the community is essential to the prevention of brain damage during a cardiac arrest and increases the chance of survival. CPR maintains the blood flow and perfusion to the brain, buying time until a defibrillator and professional medical help arrives. Cookies help us deliver our services. By using our services, you agree to our use of cookies. 4/11 It is considered best to obtain training in CPR before a medical emergency occurs, although some modern ambulance dispatchers will talk an untrained lay rescuer through the process over the phone, whilst the crew is en-route. For the most effective results, hands-on training should be given by an expert. This will enable the person to perform CPR more safely and more effectively. Most organizations adherent regular practice, and keep training in the skills, and necessarily ensure that the person is up to date with the latest guidelines, which change periodically based on the new outputs. First aid training, including CPR is often provided by a community organization or charity (with or without a fee), with international providers including the Red Cross and St. John Ambulance, or more local providers such as St. Andrew's Ambulance Association in Scotland or the American Heart Association in the United States. There are also many commercial organizations, who train members of the public or workers, where the course
