Cardiopulmonary resuscitation
KEYWORDS: cpr, chest, arrest, cardiac, heart, resuscitation, patient, cardiac arrest, blood, medical, services, method, defibrillation, use, advanced


Ambulance Association in Scotland or the American Heart Association in the United States. There are also many commercial organizations, who train members of the public or workers, where the course is paid for by employers who wish, or are required by law, to have trained first aiders on site. Classification Based on place,equipment an the patient's age we have different type of resuscitation: • Basic Life Support (BLS) • Advanced Life Support (ALS) • Neonatal Resuscitation Guidelines The last comprehensive guideline of American Heart Association (AHA) based on widespread evidence review of International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation (ILCOR) was published in 2015.[11] When you see someone's fainting or there is a possibility of cardiac or pulmonary arrest. If you are EMT, medical profession, or have enough experience in CPR, you can check a pulse, but in laypersons just checking a breath is enough. If there is no pulse or breath you can start the process of CPR. Please be aware that time is the most vital factor in CPR. The sooner the CPR begins, The higher chance of a patient's survival. At first: • Check the safety of environment • Check pulse and breath in less than 10 seconds • Activates the Emergency Response System • Ask for help. • Perform CAB. • AED: Get AED (Automated external defibrillator) as soon as possible if feasible • Looking for the cause of arrest and solve it if possible. To have the best outcome in CPR following things should be accomplished : • Ratio: compression-ventilation ratio for all age groups (except newborns) is 30:2 for one- rescuer and is 15:2 for children and infants for two-rescuer (except newborns). • Rate: chest compression rate of 100-120 pushed a minute in all age groups. More than 120 per minute does not let the cardiac to refill in chest recoil duration and less than 100 is not enough to pump blood to brain.So nor more than 120 and less than 100 chest compression per minute. Cookies help us deliver our services. By using our services, you agree to our use of cookies. 5/11 • Depth: Between 2-2.4 inches ( 5-6 centimeters ) for adults, 2 inches for children and approximately 1.5 inches for infants. • Interruptions: Try to minimize interruptions of chest compression. • Ventilation : Do not hyperventilate the patient. when the patient have advanced airway there is no need to stop chest compression
