Cardiopulmonary resuscitation
KEYWORDS: cpr, chest, arrest, cardiac, heart, resuscitation, patient, cardiac arrest, blood, medical, services, method, defibrillation, use, advanced


overdose. An editorial by Gordon Ewy MD (a proponent of CCR) in the same issue of The Lancet calls for an interim revision of the AHA/ILCOR Guidelines based on the results of the Japanese study, but the next scheduled revision of the Guidelines is not until 2010. The initial response of the AHA was that no interim change is necessary. Rhythmic Abdominal Compressions Rhythmic abdominal compression-CPR works by forcing blood from the blood vessels around the abdominal organs, an area known to contain about 25 percent of the body's total blood volume. This blood is then redirected to other sites, including the circulation around the heart. Findings published in the September 2007 issue of the American Journal of Emergency Medicine using pigs found that 60 percent more blood was pumped to the heart using rhythmic abdominal compression-CPR than with standard chest compression-CPR, using the same amount of effort. There was no evidence that rhythmic abdominal compressions damaged the abdominal organs and the risk of rib fracture was avoided. Avoiding mouth-to-mouth breathing and chest compressions eliminates the risk of rib fractures and transfer of infection.[42] Self-CPR A form of "self-CPR" termed "Cough CPR" may help a person maintain blood flow to the brain during a heart attack while waiting for medical help to arrive and has been used in a hospital emergency room in cases where "standard CPR" was contraindicated. "Cough CPR" was the subject of a hoax chain e-mail entitled "How to Survive a Heart Attack When Alone" which wrongly cited "ViaHealth Rochester, Rochester General Hospital" as the source of the technique. Rochester General Hospital has denied any connection with the technique.[43][44] Cookies help us deliver our services. By using our services, you agree to our use of cookies. 9/11 Rapid coughing has been used in hospitals for brief periods of cardiac arrhythmia on monitored patients. One researcher has recommended that it be taught broadly to the public.[45][46] However, “cough CPR” cannot be used outside the hospital because the first symptom of cardiac arrest is unconsciousness[47] in which case coughing is impossible. Further, the vast majority of people suffering chest pain from a heart attack will not be in cardiac arrest and CPR is not needed. In these cases attempting “cough CPR” will increase the workload on the heart and may be harmful. When coughing is used on trained and monitored patients in hospitals, it has only been shown to
