Surgical Treatment of Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, adenomas, surgery, tumors, transsphenoidal, tumor, patients, adenoma, clinical, acromegaly, neurosurgery, pituitary adenomas, disease, transsphenoidal surgery


ABSTRACT The overwhelming majority of pituitary adenomas are benign and present either with characteristic syndromes of excess hormone secretion or secondary to mass effect by the growing tumor. The common hypersecretory syndromes include Cushing’s disease, acromegaly/gigantism, and hyperprolactinemia. Local mass effects on the pituitary can cause varying degrees of hypopituitarism. As the tumor grows beyond the confines of the sella turcica, the visual pathways are commonly affected and visual field deficits are present. Effective medical therapy is available for prolactin secreting adenomas. With the exception of these tumors, transsphenoidal surgery remains the first-line treatment for most other pituitary adenomas. Medical therapy for growth hormone secreting adenomas and for Cushing’s disease continues to evolve. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . CLASSIFICATION Pituitary adenomas may be classified according to their clinical/radiographic characteristics ( Table 1 ) and, more recently, their cell lineage ( Table 2 ). Those tumors that measure less than 10 mm in diameter are considered microadenomas; macroadenomas are those 10 mm or larger ( Fig. 1A, B, C, and D ). Macroadenomas may also be sub-categorized as "giant" if their extent reaches far beyond the normal confines of the pituitary region or their greatest diameter exceeds 4cm ( Fig 1E, F, and G ). Pituitary adenomas may also be categorized based on their functional/secretory status. The hypersecretory adenomas cause distinctive clinical syndromes that include acromegaly/gigantism caused by growth hormone (GH) secreting adenomas, the classic Forbes-Albright syndrome (amenorrhea-galactorrhea) caused by prolactin (PRL) secreting adenomas, TSH-secreting adenomas, the occasional hypersecreting FSH/LH adenoma, and Cushing's disease/Nelson’s syndrome caused by corticotropin (ACTH) secreting adenomas. The non-functioning adenomas (NFAs) are “silent” and only perturb the endocrine system due to mass effects on the normal gland causing hypopituitarism (decreased pituitary hormone production) and generally present either incidentally, because of visual loss, or with secondary subtle hormonal abnormalities. The new histopathological classification considers the majority of tumors to be clinically silent gonadotropin tumors staining for SF-1. The next category is the true null cell adenoma which stains for no pituitary hormones with none of the other transcription factors or hormones being detected. Table 1. Clinical/Radiographic Classification Schemes of Pituitary Adenomas View in own window Scheme Features Microadenoma/ Macroadenoma ≤ 10 mmm/ > 10 mm Non-Functioning adenoma Functioning adenoma Endocrinologically inactive, patient may present with pituitary deficiency or cranial nerve deficits (CN 2 most commonly) Excess
