Surgical Treatment of Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, adenomas, surgery, tumors, transsphenoidal, tumor, patients, adenoma, clinical, acromegaly, neurosurgery, pituitary adenomas, disease, transsphenoidal surgery


Features Microadenoma/ Macroadenoma ≤ 10 mmm/ > 10 mm Non-Functioning adenoma Functioning adenoma Endocrinologically inactive, patient may present with pituitary deficiency or cranial nerve deficits (CN 2 most commonly) Excess of pituitary hormone secretion: GH adenoma; PRL adenoma; ACTH adenoma; TSH adenoma; GH -PRL adenoma; FSH/LH adenoma (rare, most are non-functioning) Other plurihormonal hypersecretory adenomas Abbreviations: CN = cranial nerve, GH = growth hormone, PRL = prolactin, ACTH = adrenocorticotropic hormone, TSH = thyroid stimulating hormone, FSH = follicle stimulating hormone, LH = luteinizing hormone Figure 1. Tumor Classification based on size. Microadenoma: Coronal and sagittal T1 weighted MRIs with contrast with arrow indicating the location of the tumor (A and B). Macroadenoma: Coronal and sagittal T1 weighted MRIs of a typical macroadenoma (C and D). Giant invasive macroadenoma: Coronal and sagittal T1 MRIs with contrast in a patient in whom the tumor compresses the right temporal lobe and invades the sphenoid sinus (E and F). In another patient, the sagittal MRI reveals a tumor that has not only invaded the sphenoid sinus but compresses the brainstem; the tumor is highlighted (G and H). The new cell lineage classification system of pituitary adenomas is a result of recent studies which have uncovered the shared transcription factor profiles present in adenoma cell lines ( 1 ). For detailed information on the pathology and pathogenesis of pituitary adenomas, see the corresponding Endotext chapter. The most common transcription factor profile is PIT1, which is shared by somatotroph, lactotroph, and thyrotroph adenomas. PIT1 mediates differentiation, expansion, and survival of these three cell types ( Table 2 ). In adenomas, evidence supports an HMGA mediated upregulation of PIT1 ( 2 ). HMGA genes are usually active during embryogenesis but not in normal adulthood ( 3 ). A new paradigm has evolved, which generally begins with transcription factor mediated monoclonal expansion of a single cell line followed by variable differentiation and retention of secretory capability. Patients harboring multiple pituitary adenomas present a unique scenario in which the true pathogenesis and pathogenetic process underlying neoplastic growth could involve distinct multicentric monoclonal expansion (“Multiple-Hit Theory”) or adenoma transdifferentiation across cell lines (“Transdifferentiation Theory”) ( 4 ). Table 2. Cell Lineage Classification of Pituitary Adenomas ( 1 ) View in own window Lineage Cell type Immunophenotype Transcription factor profile Acidophil Somatotroph GH ± PRL ± α-subunit PIT1 Lactotroph PRL PIT1, ER-α Thyrotroph TSH-β, α-subunit PIT1, GATA2 Corticotroph Corticotroph ACTH,
