Surgical Treatment of Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, adenomas, surgery, tumors, transsphenoidal, tumor, patients, adenoma, clinical, acromegaly, neurosurgery, pituitary adenomas, disease, transsphenoidal surgery


in own window Lineage Cell type Immunophenotype Transcription factor profile Acidophil Somatotroph GH ± PRL ± α-subunit PIT1 Lactotroph PRL PIT1, ER-α Thyrotroph TSH-β, α-subunit PIT1, GATA2 Corticotroph Corticotroph ACTH, LMWCK TPIT Gonadotroph Gonadotroph FSH-β or LH-β or α-subunit SF1, GATA2 Unknown Null cell None None Abbreviations: GH= growth hormone, PRL= prolactin, TSH = thyroid stimulating hormone, ACTH = adrenocorticotropic hormone, LMWCK = low molecular weight cytokeratin EPIDEMIOLOGY Pituitary adenomas account for approximately 10 to 15% of surgically-treated primary tumors of the central nervous system (CNS) ( 5 - 9 ). The incidence appears higher in African Americans in whom pituitary adenomas account for over 20% of non-metastatic CNS tumors ( 10 , 11 ). The incidence rate of pituitary tumors has increased from 2.5 to 3.1 per 100,000 per year (annual percentage change of 4.25%). Although the incidence varies according to age, sex, and ethnic group, between approximately 0.5 and 8.5 per 100,000 in the population are diagnosed annually with a pituitary adenoma ( 5 , 12 - 14 ). In a large cohort study between 2004 and 2009, the largest incidence peak was 8.5 for males 75-79 years old ( 14 ). Autopsy series indicate that pituitary tumors are quite common, and that nearly 25% of the population may harbor undiagnosed adenomas ( 15 , 16 ). The majority of these tumors are less than 3-5 mm in diameter and would not require medical or surgical intervention. More recent series using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of healthy subjects indicate that approximately 10% of the population harbors pituitary lesions. Some series report a higher rate of diagnosis among women of childbearing age, despite a similar incidence in women and men ( 5 , 13 ). Because disruption of the hypothalamo-pituitary-gonadal axis in women is more evident than in men, women with pituitary adenomas may present to clinical attention at a higher rate, and earlier, than men. Among the varying classes of adenomas, prolactinomas and non-functioning adenomas have the highest incidence, and account for nearly two-thirds of all pituitary tumors. Prolactin-secreting adenomas comprise 40 to 60% of functioning adenomas and are the most common subtype of pituitary tumor diagnosed in adolescents ( 6 ). The majority of microadenomas occur in women in their second and third decades. Men generally present later, in their fourth and fifth decades, almost always with macroadenomas. GH secreting adenomas represent approximately 20-30% of all functioning
