Surgical Treatment of Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, adenomas, surgery, tumors, transsphenoidal, tumor, patients, adenoma, clinical, acromegaly, neurosurgery, pituitary adenomas, disease, transsphenoidal surgery


women in their second and third decades. Men generally present later, in their fourth and fifth decades, almost always with macroadenomas. GH secreting adenomas represent approximately 20-30% of all functioning tumors. Nearly three quarters of GH secreting adenomas are macroadenomas. Approximately 40 to 60 individuals per million have acromegaly ( 17 - 19 ). Between 3 and 4 new cases per million are diagnosed annually ( 17 - 20 ). Most present in their 3rd to 5th decades after they have been developing symptoms and signs for many years ( 18 ). Acromegaly has been associated with an increased incidence of cardiovascular, respiratory, and cerebrovascular disease, as well as an increased risk of colon cancer. Studies have reported an increased risk of mortality compared to the unaffected population ( 17 , 20 ). Although some studies report a higher incidence of several cancers, others have only confirmed an increased risk of colon cancer ( 21 , 22 ). There is some evidence that mortality risk may be different between the sexes. Etxabe et al. found a higher mortality rate in men than in women ( 18 ). Other reports found similarly increased mortality in both sexes ( 23 ). Still others report increased risks of death in men from cardiovascular, respiratory, cerebrovascular, and malignant disease, but only from cerebrovascular disease in women ( 17 ). ACTH adenomas account for 15 to 25% of all functioning adenomas and are the most common pituitary tumors diagnosed in pre-pubertal children ( 6 ). The majority of ACTH adenomas, regardless of age, are microadenomas. Approximately 39 individuals per million have Cushing's disease from an ACTH-secreting adenoma and the annual incidence is estimated at 2.4 per million ( 24 ). Cushing's disease is more common in women, most of whom present in their third and fourth decades ( 24 , 25 ). There is a high incidence of hypertension and diabetes mellitus as well as higher vascular disease-related mortality ( 24 , 26 ). Nelson’s syndrome can develop after adrenalectomy in patients with Cushing’s disease, as negative feedback is then lost to a previously unrecognized intrasellar ACTH adenoma. These patients may develop hyperpigmentation, and the ACTH-secreting pituitary tumors often become aggressive over time. CLINICAL PRESENTATION Advances in neuroimaging, namely CT, CT angiography and particularly magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) have improved the visualization of the pituitary region. Increasing numbers of adenomas are diagnosed incidentally during the
