Surgical Treatment of Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, adenomas, surgery, tumors, transsphenoidal, tumor, patients, adenoma, clinical, acromegaly, neurosurgery, pituitary adenomas, disease, transsphenoidal surgery


Advances in neuroimaging, namely CT, CT angiography and particularly magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) have improved the visualization of the pituitary region. Increasing numbers of adenomas are diagnosed incidentally during the evaluation of sinus disorders (15%), trauma (19%), and stroke (15%), among others. These "incidentalomas" are not necessarily asymptomatic. Visual deficits are present in 5-15% of cases and up to 50% when formal testing is employed ( 27 ). Some degree of pituitary dysfunction is found in up to 15-30% ( 27 , 28 ). More than one third are macroadenomas and, of these, approximately 30% will show significant enlargement over time ( 28 - 31 ). Small asymptomatic incidental microadenomas are less likely to have clinically significant growth and often can be followed over time with repeated MRIs. Although increasing numbers of tumors are diagnosed incidentally, pituitary adenomas more often present secondary to hypersecretion, hypopituitarism, or mass effect ( Table 3 ). Table 3. Presenting Features of Pituitary Adenomas View in own window Hypersecretion GH-secreting adenoma: Acromegaly ACTH-secreting adenoma: Cushing's disease/Nelson’s syndrome Prolactin-secreting adenoma: Amenorrhea-galactorrhea TSH-secreting adenoma: Secondary hyperthyroidism Pituitary insufficiency Symptoms: diminished libido, infertility, fatigue, weakness Gonadal dysfunction, Hypothyroidism, Adrenal Insufficiency, Somatotroph Insufficiency Mass Effect (symptoms related to compressed adjacent structures) Optic chiasm: bitemporal visual field deficit and diminished visual acuity Cavernous sinus: trigeminal nerve, facial pain; cranial nerves III, IV, VI, diplopia, ptosis, mydriasis, anisocoria Pressure on dura or diaphragma sellae: headache Hypothalamus: behavior, eating, and vigilance disturbances (somnolence) Temporal lobe: complex partial seizures, memory and cognitive disturbances Incidental Discovered during the evaluation for headaches, trauma, nasal sinus disorders, dizziness Hypersecretory Syndromes (For detailed descriptions see corresponding chapters in Endotext) Acromegaly induces characteristic growth hormone-induced structural changes in physiognomy. There is an insidious coarsening of facial features with an enlarged forehead, enlarged tongue, malocclusion of the teeth, and prognathism ( Fig 2 ). Patients' hands and feet also enlarge. Many patients may develop excessive sweating (hyperhidrosis). The external hypertrophy of tissue is paralleled throughout the body. Enlargement of the tongue and hands is common. Patients may suffer from enlarged organs (visceromegaly) and overgrowth of joints and cartilage, along with high blood pressure, cardiomyopathy, congestive heart failure, sleep apnea, spinal canal narrowing (facet hypertrophy), and carpal tunnel syndrome. Significant numbers of patients with acromegaly also have impaired glucose metabolism and diabetes mellitus. Figure 2. Acromegaly. A. Coronal T1 weighted MRI with contrast in a patient with an intrasellar GH
