Surgical Treatment of Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, adenomas, surgery, tumors, transsphenoidal, tumor, patients, adenoma, clinical, acromegaly, neurosurgery, pituitary adenomas, disease, transsphenoidal surgery


numbers of patients with acromegaly also have impaired glucose metabolism and diabetes mellitus. Figure 2. Acromegaly. A. Coronal T1 weighted MRI with contrast in a patient with an intrasellar GH secreting adenoma. Arrows indicate the common finding of “cutis gyrata”. B. Sagittal T1 weighted MRI in the same patient with arrows indicating the frontal bossing and the enlarged frontal sinus, and * the tumor. Cushing's disease causes changes in body habitus with characteristic increased weight gain, truncal obesity, "buffalo hump", enlargement of supraclavicular fat pads and moon facies. Skin changes are also common and include purple striae, easy bruisability, ruddy complexion, and increased body and facial hair. Patients suffer from fatigue, proximal muscle weakness, osteoporosis, psychological/psychiatric disorders, high blood pressure, and impaired glucose metabolism. They often have headache, menstrual disorders, and cognitive and emotional dysfunction. Women with prolactinomas classically present with amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea and galactorrhea. Most are in their childbearing years, and are more likely to pursue medical attention for infertility and menstrual irregularity. Men, and women beyond their reproductive years, more often have headache, visual symptoms, sexual dysfunction, and signs of decreased pituitary function. Amenorrhea and galactorrhea are not specific to prolactinomas, however. Prolactin secretion is under constant inhibitory control from the hypothalamus. Any lesion that imposes pressure upon the portal venous connection of the pituitary stalk (infundibulum) connecting the hypothalamus and pituitary gland can interrupt these inhibitory dopaminergic signals. This, in turn, causes an increase in serum prolactin levels, and mimics a prolactinoma, i.e., a 'pseudo-prolactinoma'. In such cases serum prolactin levels are usually only moderately elevated. As a general rule, serum prolactin levels over 200 ng/ml (3600mU/L) are indicative of prolactinomas ( 32 ). Hypopituitarism Tumor growth impairs the normal secretory function of the anterior pituitary and causes hypopituitarism. Common complaints include diminished sex drive, fatigue, weakness, and hypothyroidism. Pituitary insufficiency generally develops slowly over time. However, acute pituitary insufficiency may occur in the setting of pituitary apoplexy, a condition in which the tumor infarcts or has internal bleeding ( Fig 3 ). Pituitary tumor apoplexy can be particularly devastating, because it combines acute hypopituitarism and adrenal insufficiency with a rapidly expanding intracranial mass, and often causes visual loss or even sudden blindness. Figure 3. Pituitary tumor apoplexy. Sagittal T1 weighted MRI without contrast in a patient presenting with pituitary tumor apoplexy. Note the fluid-fluid level within the tumor indicative of the apoplectic tumor. Neurological Dysfunction
