Surgical Treatment of Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, adenomas, surgery, tumors, transsphenoidal, tumor, patients, adenoma, clinical, acromegaly, neurosurgery, pituitary adenomas, disease, transsphenoidal surgery


tumor apoplexy. Sagittal T1 weighted MRI without contrast in a patient presenting with pituitary tumor apoplexy. Note the fluid-fluid level within the tumor indicative of the apoplectic tumor. Neurological Dysfunction Neurologic signs and symptoms develop as adenomas grow beyond the confines of the sella turcica and exert pressure upon adjacent brain structures. As tumors enlarge, they compress the optic nerves and optic chiasm, and patients experience visual deficits and diminished visual acuity. Classically this causes a bitemporal hemianopia, i.e., visual loss in the temporal fields of each eye. Tumor growth may also affect other nerves (such as the 3rd, 4th, 5th, or 6th cranial nerves) and cause facial pain and/or double vision or drooping of the eyelid. Headache, although a non-specific complaint, can occur when a tumor stretches the dural sac that surrounds the pituitary gland. Headache from pituitary lesions is usually frontal or retro-orbital – it may be bitemporal or radiate to the occipito-cervical region. Many patients will have been previously diagnosed with “migraine”, or “tension-headache” ( 33 ). DIAGNOSIS A panel of endocrinological tests can often confirm the clinical diagnosis of pituitary adenoma. Serum GH and IGF-1 levels screen for acromegaly. Failure to suppress GH levels after an oral glucose load (oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT)) can further confirm the diagnosis. Although any macroadenoma may cause moderate increases in serum PRL, levels greater than 200 ng/ml (3600 mU/L) are highly suggestive of a prolactin secreting adenoma. Dilution of the samples for assay may be necessary to avoid the “hook effect” related to macroprolactinemia. Endocrinologic studies that suggest Cushing's disease includes an elevated ACTH and late night salivary or elevated 24-hour urine free cortisol (UFC), loss of the normal diurnal variation in cortisol levels, and suppression of serum cortisol levels after high dose dexamethasone but failure to suppress after low dose dexamethasone. Inferior petrosal vein sampling after corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) stimulation (i.e., Inferior Petrosal Sinus Sampling; IPSS) may be required to confirm and localize the pituitary source. At times, prior to diagnosing Cushing's disease, other ectopic sources of excess ACTH, such as bronchogenic or pancreatic carcinoma and pulmonary carcinoid tumors, must be excluded. This can often be accomplished with a CT scan or MRI of the chest and abdomen and with novel nuclear imaging tests ( 34 , 35 ). Obesity, alcoholism, and depression also elevate serum cortisol levels, and the diagnosis of Cushing's disease should be made with
