Surgical Treatment of Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, adenomas, surgery, tumors, transsphenoidal, tumor, patients, adenoma, clinical, acromegaly, neurosurgery, pituitary adenomas, disease, transsphenoidal surgery


and with novel nuclear imaging tests ( 34 , 35 ). Obesity, alcoholism, and depression also elevate serum cortisol levels, and the diagnosis of Cushing's disease should be made with caution in these “pseudo-Cushing’s” settings ( 36 ). TREATMENT Although some incidentally-discovered microadenomas that do not cause symptoms may be followed clinically and with repeated MRI, patients with macroadenomas generally need medical or surgical intervention. Therapeutic goals include improved quality of life and survival; elimination of mass effect and reversal of related signs and symptoms, normalization of hormonal hypersecretion; preservation or recovery of normal pituitary function, and prevention of recurrence of the pituitary tumor. MEDICAL THERAPY Medical therapy is available for most hypersecretory tumors ( 37 - 40 ). The majority of prolactin-secreting adenomas are effectively treated with dopamine agonists (bromocriptine and cabergoline). Cabergoline is generally preferred as a result of a better side-effect profile, and between 80-90% of patients can achieve hormonal control ( 37 ). Surgical intervention is ordinarily reserved for those who are intolerant of medical therapy because of multiple side effects (e.g., nausea, headache, impulsive or compulsive behavior), whose prolactin levels remain elevated, or whose tumors continue to grow despite maximal medical treatment. Medical treatment using somatostatin analogues (octreotide, lanreotide, and pasireotide) and dopamine agonists (cabergoline) have varying degrees of efficacy for treating GH adenomas. The growth hormone receptor antagonist, pegvisamont, can be used in combination with other agents ( 41 - 43 ), and hormonal control can generally be achieved in about 60-90% of patients ( 37 ). Although medical therapy is most often reserved for those patients’ awaiting surgery or those with persistent disease postoperatively, some advocate primary medical therapy, particularly for invasive tumors ( 44 , 45 ). There is some conflicting evidence that pre-surgical medical therapy may improve surgical outcome ( 46 ). Ketoconazole and/or metyrapone therapy can normalize serum cortisol levels in patients with Cushing's disease preoperatively 50-75% of the time. Metyrapone and ketoconazole inhibit enzymes in the adrenal gland required for steroid synthesis. A new and safer formulation, levoketoconazole is now available. Along with acromegaly, surgery remains the first-line therapy for ACTH secreting tumors and Cushing disease. Clinical trials have also demonstrated some role for medical therapy with cabergoline or pasireotide, and with mifepristone (cortisol receptor blocker) in selected cases ( 47 , 48 ).A new agent, osilodrostat, is under development. The disadvantage of medical treatment of hypersecretory syndromes is
