Surgical Treatment of Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, adenomas, surgery, tumors, transsphenoidal, tumor, patients, adenoma, clinical, acromegaly, neurosurgery, pituitary adenomas, disease, transsphenoidal surgery


pasireotide, and with mifepristone (cortisol receptor blocker) in selected cases ( 47 , 48 ).A new agent, osilodrostat, is under development. The disadvantage of medical treatment of hypersecretory syndromes is that it is usually suppressive in nature and not fully cytotoxic. Tumors often recur when medications are discontinued, or they become resistant to therapy. Potential new targets are being explored, but have not yet reached clinical practice ( 49 - 51 ). RADIATION THERAPY Radiotherapy is most often employed in conjunction with medical or surgical therapy. Fractionated external beam radiation therapy can reduce excessive hormone production and can reduce the incidence of tumor recurrence ( 52 ); however, it can be replaced by stereotactic radiotherapy with focal conformal fractionated delivery. Gamma knife, Cyberknife, proton beam or linear accelerator stereotactic radiosurgery is increasingly considered as adjunctive therapy for pituitary tumors, and can be effective in normalizing hormonal hypersecretion and preventing recurrence ( 53 - 55 ). Whether by fractionated external beam or radiosurgery, the effects of radiotherapy are delayed. Patients require continued suppressive medical therapy during the period between treatment and effect. There is also a significant incidence of radiation-induced delayed hypopituitarism ( 52 ). There is no evidence to date that one of these various modalities is superior to another in efficacy, risks of complications, recurrence rates, or incidence of hypopituitarism. For more information on radiotherapy for pituitary tumors, see the corresponding chapter in Endotext. SURGERY Indications for Surgery For most pituitary tumors, surgery remains the first-line treatment of symptomatic pituitary adenomas. Large or invasive asymptomatic tumors may also warrant surgical consideration. It is sometime possible to estimate a tumor’s invasiveness on an MRI using the Knosp grading system ( 56 ). Asymptomatic tumors with evidence of radiographic invasion or displacement of the optic apparatus may benefit from surgery to prevent neurological deficits and progressive pituitary dysfunction. Surgery is also chosen secondarily when medical treatment fails for the treatment of prolactinoma. Regardless of the tumor type, surgery provides prompt relief from excess hormone secretion and mass effect. There is evidence to suggest that debulking of medically refractory prolactinomas and GH adenomas can return these tumors to a responsive state ( 57 , 58 ). Rarely is surgery recommended as first line therapy for prolactinomas ( 59 ). Surgery may be indicated in pituitary apoplexy with acute vision loss ≤ 72 hours as a result of mass effect on the optic
