Surgical Treatment of Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, adenomas, surgery, tumors, transsphenoidal, tumor, patients, adenoma, clinical, acromegaly, neurosurgery, pituitary adenomas, disease, transsphenoidal surgery


line therapy for prolactinomas ( 59 ). Surgery may be indicated in pituitary apoplexy with acute vision loss ≤ 72 hours as a result of mass effect on the optic chiasm from hematoma formation. Studies have shown that some patients with pituitary apoplexy can be successfully treated without operative intervention, but they are often confounded by selection bias, and the ideal patient has not been conclusively established for operative versus non-operative treatment ( 60 - 62 ). Peri-Operative Management A major component of the surgical management of patients with pituitary tumors actually occurs in the peri-operative period. Detailed information on peri-operative management of pituitary tumors can be found elsewhere ( 63 ). Briefly, pre-operative planning is very important in order to avoid complications and achieve optimal outcomes. It is obligatory to note any prior nasal surgery, review prior imaging, and obtain adequate pre-operative imaging for integration with neuronavigational systems. Typically, a high resolution T1 post contrast MRI is adequate for neuronavigational registration. The authors advocate additional imaging that includes ( 1 ) coronal and sagittal T1-weighted pre and post contrast images with at least 3mm slice thickness through the parasellar region for identification of the tumor, pituitary gland/stalk, cavernous sinus, and vasculature, ( 2 ) axial T2-weighted images of the sella to measure intercarotid distance, and ( 3 ) a coronal and sagittal strong T2-weighted Constructive Interface in Steady State (i.e., CISS, also known as FIESTA) through the parasellar region to identify midline structures and the optic chiasm. For revision surgery, a CT scan of the sinuses can be helpful to identify abnormal osseous anatomy. The imaging should be reviewed to identify normal gland and pituitary stalk, look for cavernous sinus invasion, identify arachnoid diverticula, and verify anatomical landmarks. Finally, it is critical to assess pre-operative pituitary function and replete necessary hormones (especially cortisol and thyroid hormones) prior to surgery. Remember to replete cortisol before thyroid hormone to avoid precipitating an adrenal crisis. For more information on the evaluation and management of pituitary hormone deficiency, see corresponding chapters in Endotext . Post-operative management varies from routine to very complicated depending on the lesion size and extent of the operation and post-operative pituitary function. Patients with complete removal of intrasellar non-functioning tumors and intraoperative preservation of the normal pituitary gland without a cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leak can have a relatively benign post-operative course. It is important to monitor closely for diabetes
