Surgical Treatment of Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, adenomas, surgery, tumors, transsphenoidal, tumor, patients, adenoma, clinical, acromegaly, neurosurgery, pituitary adenomas, disease, transsphenoidal surgery


tumors and intraoperative preservation of the normal pituitary gland without a cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leak can have a relatively benign post-operative course. It is important to monitor closely for diabetes insipidus (DI), check a fasting morning cortisol to rule out secondary adrenal insufficiency, and restrict fluids as appropriate to prevent the syndrome of inappropriate anti-diuretic hormone (SIADH) ( 64 ). Patients with larger suprasellar or invasive tumors and/or those with CSF leaks requiring more extensive skull base reconstructions may require ICU care ( 65 , 66 ). For information on the management of endocrine dysfunction and post-operative care in Cushing’s disease and Acromegaly, please see the corresponding chapters in Endotext . Surgical Technique The minimally invasive transsphenoidal approach can be used effectively for 95% of pituitary tumors. Exceptions are those large tumors with significant temporal or anterior cranial fossa extension. In such circumstances, transcranial approaches are often more appropriate. Occasionally, combined transsphenoidal and transcranial approaches are used. Nevertheless, some surgeons extend the basic transsphenoidal exposure in order to remove some of these tumors and avoid a craniotomy ( Fig. 4 ) ( 67 - 70 ). The transsphenoidal approach is a versatile method for treating pituitary tumors ( Table 4 ). Endoscopic approaches may be used in isolation or as an adjunct to the other transsphenoidal approaches ( Fig. 4 ) ( 71 - 78 ). Computer-guided neuronavigational techniques are nearly ubiquitous at major pituitary centers in lieu of traditional fluoroscopic guidance ( 79 , 80 ). The role of neuronavigation is most pertinent in recurrent adenomas in which the midline anatomy has been distorted by previous transsphenoidal surgery. Intraoperative MRI is increasingly available and appears to be most applicable for large tumors ( 81 ). There are three basic variations of the transsphenoidal approach. Figure 4. Endoscopic approach. Intra-operative photograph of one surgeon (left) driving the endoscope while the main surgeon (right) resects the tumor. Table 4. Transsphenoidal Surgery for Pituitary Adenomas: Personal Summary of 3744 Cases over a 36 year period View in own window Type of Adenoma Number of Patients (%) Functioning adenomas GH adenoma (Acromegaly) 662 (17.7) PRL adenoma 975 (26.0) ACTH adenoma (Cushing's disease) 680 (18.2) TSH adenoma 45 (1.2) Non-functioning adenomas 1382 (36.9) SUBMUCOSAL TRANSSEPTAL APPROACH The patient is placed in a lawn-chair position and a hemi-transfixion incision is made just inside the nostril so that the scar cannot be seen after surgery (
