Surgical Treatment of Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, adenomas, surgery, tumors, transsphenoidal, tumor, patients, adenoma, clinical, acromegaly, neurosurgery, pituitary adenomas, disease, transsphenoidal surgery


TRANSSEPTAL APPROACH The patient is placed in a lawn-chair position and a hemi-transfixion incision is made just inside the nostril so that the scar cannot be seen after surgery ( Fig. 5 ). Most often the entire procedure can be accomplished endonasally. Conversion to a sublabial approach may be necessary for large macroadenomas and children in whom the exposure through one nostril is sometimes inadequate. A submucosal plane is developed along the nasal septum back to the level of the sphenoid sinus. Bone of the septum can be harvested for use later in the operation. The bone in front of the pituitary gland is also removed, the dura opened, and tumor is extracted in fragments ( Fig. 6 ). Afterwards the saved bone, cartilage, or artificial material can be used to refashion the normal housing of the pituitary gland. Closure is rapid and consists of several interrupted absorbable sutures in the nasal mucosa and temporary nasal packing to promote healing of the mucosa. Figure 5. Standard positioning for the endonasal approach (above). Below left, endonasal hemitransfixion incision; below right, direct sphenoidotomy technique. Figure 6. Left, standard endonasal approach showing the trajectory to sella in sagittal view; Right, sequential steps used in tumor removal and repair of the sellar floor common to all techniques. SEPTAL PUSHOVER/DIRECT SPHENOIDOTOMY This approach uses incisions deeper within the nasal cavity ( Fig 6 , lower right. The incision for the septal pushover technique is made at the junction of the cartilaginous and bony septum. Submucosal tunnels are developed on either side of the bony septum until the sphenoid sinus is reached. Another option to reach the sphenoid sinus is by performing a direct sphenoidotomy. Using this method, no incision is made in the septum. Instead, the posterior part of septum just in front of the sphenoid sinus is deflected laterally and the sphenoid sinus is entered directly. There are several advantages to these techniques. Because there is no submucosal dissection of the cartilaginous septum, the risk of an anterior nasal septal perforation is eliminated. In addition, there is less need for nasal packing postoperatively, a frequent cause of postoperative pain and discomfort. The main drawback of these more direct approaches is that the exposure is not as wide as can be achieved by the standard endonasal transseptal approach in which the cartilaginous septum can be more extensively mobilized. PURE ENDOSCOPIC APPROACH The pure endoscopic approach
