Surgical Treatment of Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, adenomas, surgery, tumors, transsphenoidal, tumor, patients, adenoma, clinical, acromegaly, neurosurgery, pituitary adenomas, disease, transsphenoidal surgery


not as wide as can be achieved by the standard endonasal transseptal approach in which the cartilaginous septum can be more extensively mobilized. PURE ENDOSCOPIC APPROACH The pure endoscopic approach has much appeal and is becoming the procedure of choice at many pituitary centers ( 82 , 83 ). Surgery begins at the sphenoid rostrum where a direct anterior sphenoidotomy is performed after identifying the natural sphenoid os within the sphenoidoethmoidal recess. Some surgeons prefer to perform the surgery using a single nostril. A binostril approach, however, provides more maneuverability and two-handed microdissection. To achieve an adequate exposure for the binostril approach, the middle and superior turbinates are lateralized and the bony septum just in front of the sphenoid sinus is removed. The sphenoidotomy is widened from the midline inferior vomer to the ethmoid air cells superiorly and then laterally until the carotid arteries are easily visualized ( Fig 7-A ). This allows instruments to be used in both nostrils simultaneously. Although a specialized endoscope holder may be used during tumor removal, the “3-hand” technique is advocated by many surgeons. The “3-hand” or “4-hand” technique requires two surgeons; one surgeon maneuvers the endoscope while another has both hands free to remove the tumor using microsurgical techniques. The surgical team is typically a neurosurgeon and otolaryngologist with experience in skull base surgery. Extended approaches are more commonly performed by teams rather than individuals ( 80 , 84 ). The endoscope provides panoramic magnified views of the sellar anatomy during both the approach to and resection of tumors ( Fig 7 – A, B). The option of using angled endoscopes allows surgeons to inspect for residual tumor, particularly along the cavernous sinus walls and the suprasellar region ( 85 ) ( Fig 7 – C, D). No nasal packing is required as the procedure is performed posterior to the septum. The main disadvantages are the procedure’s learning curve and that the depth of field may problematic for some surgeons. There are 3D endoscopes and continued development of High Defintion (HD) imaging that may help to alleviate this potential problem. A recent international survey showed that about 7% of surgeons report using the 3D endoscope for transsphenoidal surgery. Advances in patient specific anatomical modeling is increasingly available for integration with the neuronavigation in the form of “augmented reality” which helps the surgeon visualize otherwise hidden anatomical structures ( 86 ). Finally, given the
