Surgical Treatment of Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, adenomas, surgery, tumors, transsphenoidal, tumor, patients, adenoma, clinical, acromegaly, neurosurgery, pituitary adenomas, disease, transsphenoidal surgery


modeling is increasingly available for integration with the neuronavigation in the form of “augmented reality” which helps the surgeon visualize otherwise hidden anatomical structures ( 86 ). Finally, given the importance of vision preservation during endonasal surgery, especially with extended approaches, new developments in visual evoked potential monitoring are being studied ( 87 ). The clinical benefit of these new technologies is promising but still uncertain. Figure 7. Endoscopic views. A. After the anterior wall of the sphenoid sinus is opened, the endoscope provides a panoramic view of the sella and surrounding anatomy. B. Endoscopic view of the tumor bed after resection. C. Endoscopic view of the right cavernous sinus wall using the 0 degree endoscope. D. Note the dramatically improved view of the right cavernous sinus wall in the same patient using the 45 degree endoscope. (arrowhead= carotid artery) Outcome Surgical outcomes after surgery for pituitary adenomas can be divided into functional outcomes and oncologic outcomes. Functional goals include the relief of symptoms and improvement or preservation of pituitary and visual function, along with improved quality of life ( 88 - 90 ). Visual deficits in patients with non-functioning pituitary adenomas are improved in approximately 80-90%. Some visual deterioration may occur in 0-4%. Most patients with intact pituitary function preoperatively retain their normal function. Those with preoperative pituitary deficiency regain function in 27% of the cases. The remaining patients are managed with hormone replacement therapy. Oncologic outcomes relate to tumor resection, recurrence, and biochemical remission from hormonal excess. Ten-year recurrence rates are approximately 16%, although only 6% require additional treatment ( Table 5 ). On long-term follow-up, 83% of patients are alive and well without evidence of disease. Table 5. Results of Transsphenoidal Surgery, Personal Summary of 3093 Cases over a 28 year period. Proportions (%) represent cumulative incidence. View in own window Tumor Remission 10-year Recurrence Non-functioning adenoma Not applicable* 16% GH adenoma Microadenoma 88% 1.3% Macroadenoma 65% PRL adenoma Microadenoma 87% 13% Macroadenoma 56% ACTH adenoma Microadenoma 91% 12% (Adults) 42% (Pediatric) Macroadenoma 65% *Visual improvement occurs in 87% of those with preoperative visual loss. Currently, using strict criteria for remission and in expert hands, transsphenoidal surgery obtains remission in 85-90% of patients with acromegaly with microadenomas and 65% of those harboring macroadenomas. For functional tumors, remission rates vary by tumor size and tumor type ( 91 ). Microadenomas typically have higher biochemical remission rates and remission
