Surgical Treatment of Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, adenomas, surgery, tumors, transsphenoidal, tumor, patients, adenoma, clinical, acromegaly, neurosurgery, pituitary adenomas, disease, transsphenoidal surgery


and 65% of those harboring macroadenomas. For functional tumors, remission rates vary by tumor size and tumor type ( 91 ). Microadenomas typically have higher biochemical remission rates and remission rates are highest for microprolactinomas (92.3%) and lowest for somatotroph macroadenomas (40%). Currently, acromegalic symptoms are improved in 95% and recurrence is less than 2 percent at ten years. Ninety seven percent of patients have preserved normal pituitary function ( 92 ). Modern criteria for remission include normal IGF-1 levels and either GH suppression to less than 0.4 ng/ml with oral glucose tolerance test or fasting GH less than 1.0 ng/ml. Using these criteria, surgical biochemical remission is over 60% ( 93 ). Both repeat surgery and medical therapy are options for those with residual disease and/or biochemical recurrence ( 37 , 94 ). Patients with prolactinomas who present for surgery are most often those who have failed medical management. Endonasal surgery for prolactinomas is associated with additional risks resulting from tumor fibrosis after dopamine agonist therapy but remission rates are still quite good. Prolactin levels are normalized in about 87% of microadenomas and 56% of macroadenomas ( Table 5 ). The recurrence rate among those patients who are normalized after a transsphenoidal operation is 13% at ten years. Preserved pituitary function occurs in all but 3%. Surgical management of Cushing's disease achieves a 91% remission rate for microadenomas, but falls to 65% for those with macroadenomas. Some 10-20% of adults experience recurrence after ten years. Postoperative stereotactic radiosurgery has achieved remission in approximately 60-70% of patients whose disease either did not remit following surgery or recurred ( 95 ). Pituitary surgeons, with all health care professionals, strive for excellence in the care of our patients, it is becoming clear that criteria must be developed in order optimize surgical outcomes. Recently, a consensus statement on Pituitary Tumor Centers of Excellence (PTCOE) was released ( 96 ). In brief, PTCOE should be independent non-for-profit organizations, widely recognized by endocrinologist and pituitary surgeons, aimed at the advancement of pituitary science and the highest quality of patient care. They should also be recognized by external societies and act as resident training centers. Complications of Transsphenoidal Surgery Complication avoidance is central to transsphenoidal surgery given the close proximity of major neurologic and vascular structures ( 97 , 98 ). Recently, surgical checklists for endonasal transsphenoidal surgery have been developed in order to optimize surgical
