CLINICS 2009;64(5):421-5
KEYWORDS: patients, fcp, disease, values, group, ibd, fcp values, remission, bowel, control, levels, calprotectin, study, fecal, higher


CLINICS 2009;64(5):421-5 CLINICAL SCIENCE ThE roLE of fECAL CALproTECTIN IN INvESTIgATINg INfLAmmATory bowEL dISEASES Mustafa Erbayrak,I Cansel Turkay,I Elife Eraslan,I Hulya Cetinkaya,II Benan Kasapoglu,III Mehmet BektasII doi: Erbayrak M, Turkay C, Eraslan E, Cetinkaya H, Kasapoglu B, Bektas M. The role of fecal calprotectin in investigating inflammatory bowel diseases. Clinics. 2009;64(5):421-5. INTRODUCTION: Invasive and non-invasive tests can be used to evaluate the activity of inflammatory bowel diseases. OBJECTIVE: The aim of the present study was to investigate the role of fecal calprotectin in evaluating inflammatory bowel disease activity and the correlation of fecal calprotectin with the erythrocyte sedimentation rate and C reactive protein values in inflammatory bowel disease. METHOD: Sixty-five patients affected with inflammatory bowel disease were enrolled. Twenty outpatients diagnosed with inflam- matory bowel disease comprised the control group. mg/kg). organic disease. Fecal calprotectin is a simple and non-invasive method for assessing excretion of macrophages into the gut lu- men. Fecal calprotectin values can be used to evaluate the response to treatment, to screen asymptomatic patients, and to predict inflammatory bowel disease relapses. KEYWORDS: Inflammatory bowel diseases; Irritable bowel syndrome; Fecal calprotectin. INTRODUCTION invasive procedure. Thus, there is an increasing need for an easy, non-invasive and inexpensive method to evaluate the Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs) are chronic activity of the disease and the differential diagnosis of the intestinal diseases of unknown etiology that progress with disease in patients with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). periods of remission and activation. Invasive and non- Calprotectin, first described in 1980 by Fagertol, is invasive tests can be used to evaluate the activity of these released by activated neutrophils, and it accounts for more diseases. Among those tests, the erythrocyte sedimentation than 40% of the cytosolic proteins ofneutrophils.1,2 Elevated rate (ESR) and C reactive protein (CRP) levels are neither concentrations of calprotectin can be measured in plasma, very sensitive nor very specific. Currently, the most sensitive cerebrospinal fluid, synovial fluid, urine, and feces when and specific method is endoscopy and biopsy, but it is an ongoing inflammation is present or in malignant conditions. Increased fecal calprotectin (FCP) concentrations have been found in gastric and colorectal cancers as well as in IBD. The high fecal calprotectin concentrations detected in IBD key. Turkey. gut wall and increased migration of neutrophils into the gut Turkey. lumen. Email: The aim of the present study was to investigate the role Tel.: 90-0312-4829166 Received for publication on January 21, 2009
