CLINICS 2009;64(5):421-5
KEYWORDS: patients, fcp, disease, values, group, ibd, fcp values, remission, bowel, control, levels, calprotectin, study, fecal, higher


groups FCP values were higher in the IBD patients than in the and inexpensive methods to estimate disease activity, control group, while the hb level was lower in the IBD determine therapy, and differentiate IBD flairs from IBS group. In particular, there was a statistically significant symptoms, which have been observed in 20-30% of IBD difference in FCP and hb levels upon comparison of the patients.6,7 Since the correlation between laboratory data IBD patients and control group (p<0.05). No statistically and clinical activity as assessed by endoscopy and histology significant differences in FCP levels were detected between is very poor in IBD, many studies are currently focused on UC and CD patients (p>0.05) (Table 2). Among CD patients, fecal markers. ESR and CRP levels were significantly higher during active In the present study, we determined the FCP levels of UC disease than in remission (p<0.05). When we investigated and CD patients and assessed IBS patients as a control group the control group and patients in remission according to the to illustrate the role of FCP in evaluating IBD activity and Crohn’s Disease Activity Index (CDAI), we found that hb remission periods. Moreover, we investigated the relationship levels were higher in controls, while ESR, CRP, and FCP between FCP and other markers of inflammation. levels were lower, and these differences were statistically In the present study, the mean age of patients was 41.7 significant (p<0.05). years in the CD group and 40.8 years in the UC group. The Of 51 patients in the UC group, 21 were in remission majority of patients were in their 2nd-4th decades of life. index4. Of the 32 patients with active disease, 10 were women were similar in the UC group, the number of women mild, 19 were moderate, and 3 were severe according to the was higher in the CD group.8, 9 Among the CD patients, five Truelove-Witts criteria.5 of the seven smokers had active disease, but only three of Investigation of FCP levels in UC patients in remission the nine UC smokers presented active disease. As noted in and the control group showed that FCP levels were many previous studies, smoking is linked to an increased significantly higher in UC patients. This significant prevalence and risk of relapse for CD.10, 11 difference was probably due to the extremely high FCP CDAI is a commonly used clinical and laboratory levels (>230 mg/kg) in two patients.
