CLINICS 2009;64(5):421-5
KEYWORDS: patients, fcp, disease, values, group, ibd, fcp values, remission, bowel, control, levels, calprotectin, study, fecal, higher


and risk of relapse for CD.10, 11 difference was probably due to the extremely high FCP CDAI is a commonly used clinical and laboratory levels (>230 mg/kg) in two patients. There were no index for the determination of CD activity and response to significant differences in CRP and ESR levels between those treatment12. In the present study, all patients in remission two groups. according to CDAI were undergoing immunosuppressive When UC patients with active disease and the control treatment. The FCP levels were elevated in all of the patients group were investigated, FCP levels in particular, as well as with active disease. Many studies have previously concluded patients. Comparison of UC patients revealed that those with pathology in CD, or no relationship between the CDAI and active disease had significantly higher ESR, CRP, and FCP mucosal inflammation.13 levels than those in remission. Significantly higher levels of FCP were detected in the IBD group compared to the control group. In the CD group, DISCUSSION very high FCP levels were determined in patients with active disease according to CDAI clinical criteria compared with Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs) are chronic patients in remission and the control group. ESR and CRP intestinal diseases that progress with periods of remission were also higher in patients with active disease, but the and activation. Although recently there is growing data difference in CRP was not statistically significant. FCP levels regarding disease progression, diagnosis, and treatment were also significantly higher in CD patients in remission options, we still are in need of easy, non-invasive, accurate, than in the control group according to CDAI. Fecal calprotectin in inflammatory bowel diseases CLINICS 2009;64(5):421-5 Erbayrak M et al. Leukocyte scintigraphy is the gold standard test to FCP values were also histologically in remission. demonstrate inflammation, and it provides information Tibble et al. used FCP values to predict relapses as well about the localization and severity of bowel inflammation. as to determine the necessity for IBD screening and response Although this test is the proper method for differentiating to treatment. They indicated that IBD patients in clinical functional symptoms from symptoms that are secondary remission with FCP values greater than 50 mg/L (in both to inflammation (and thus to estimate the response to the UC and CD groups) show clinical relapses within a few treatment), the high cost and exposure to ionizing radiation months with a sensitivity >80%.15 have limited its use
