CLINICS 2009;64(5):421-5
KEYWORDS: patients, fcp, disease, values, group, ibd, fcp values, remission, bowel, control, levels, calprotectin, study, fecal, higher


to the UC and CD groups) show clinical relapses within a few treatment), the high cost and exposure to ionizing radiation months with a sensitivity >80%.15 have limited its use as a routine test. In a study performed Costa et al. performed a follow-up of 79 IBD patients by Saverymuttu et al., fecal excretion of In131-labelled in remission (CD: 31, UC: 48) for 1 year. Relapses were granulocytes was higher in 89% of CD patients who were documented for 15 CD and 19 UC patients. They indicated considered to be in remission (CDAI<150) than in IBS that there was no significant difference in CRP and ESR patients.14 Gaya et al. also showed a correlation between values between patients in the relapsing and non-relapsing FCP and leukocyte scintigraphy in terms of determining the groups. However, they determined that, especially in the UC severity and extent of CD; in fact, FCP is more successful in group, a significant difference in FCP values was present showing intestinal inflammation than leukocyte scintigraphy. between the relapsing and non-relapsing groups. That study Moreover, there is no significant correlation between CDAI also showed that ESR and CRP values are not useful for and FCP or leukocyte scintigraphy in determining disease estimating clinical relapses.7 activity.13 In an investigation of more than 60 patients, Roseth et al. Roseth et al. used infliximab to treat patients with severe indicated that UC patients with histologically lower and higher relapsing CD and found that after treatment, over a period disease activities can be distinguished simply on the basis of of 3-4 weeks, FCP values decreased from 1000-2000 mg/L their FCP values. They also investigated more than 40 IBD to 200-300 mg/L, with higher values often correlating with patients with normal FCP values and determined mucosal clinically active disease.6 They found that FCP values were healing in all of them. Similarly, patients in the present study normalized after treatment based on both an endoscopically with normal FCP values were those that were successfully the prognosis of patients with mucosal healing was better Fecal calprotectin can be used as a screening test for the compared to non-healing patients. Therefore, those authors differential diagnosis of IBD and IBS. In the present study, suggested that mucosal healing should be a treatment all patients in the control group exhibited FCP values lower goal for IBD patients. The study concluded that FCP is than the cut-off point (50
