CLINICS 2009;64(5):421-5
KEYWORDS: patients, fcp, disease, values, group, ibd, fcp values, remission, bowel, control, levels, calprotectin, study, fecal, higher


healing should be a treatment all patients in the control group exhibited FCP values lower goal for IBD patients. The study concluded that FCP is than the cut-off point (50 mg/ kg). To clarify a cut off point, a significant marker in determining disease activity and Tibble et al. determined 100% sensitivity and 94% specificity response to treatment in IBD patients. with a cut-off point of 30 mg/kg for FCP values in a study The ESR, CRP, and FCP values were significantly higher comprising 225 patients. In another study of 600 patients, in those UC patients with clinically and endoscopically Tibble et al. determined that patients with Roma II criteria active disease than in patients in remission or in the control and normal FCP values do not have IBD and indicated group. When we investigated FCP values in UC patients that there is no need for those patients to be examined in the remission and control groups, we found that FCP radiologically or via colonoscopy. Among all IBD patients, values were significantly higher in the UC group (p: 0.015). 20–30% may have IBS and IBS symptoms that interfere with This result may be due to the FCP values of two patients in disease activity. FCP may be used to distinguish active IBD remission that were as high as patients with active disease from IBS in those patients, and high FCP values may be used (230, 14–240, 44). In one of those patients, the disease as a criterion for endoscopic evaluation. On the other hand, period was four years and the disease was localized to patients with normal FCP values are most likely to have the left colon; in the other patient, the disease period was functional GIS disease. fourteen years and pancolitis had been documented. In In conclusion, fecal calprotectin was found to be the patient with UC and pancolitis adenocarcinoma of the a marker that is strongly associated with colorectal rectum detected via colonoscopy during the follow-up period inflammation and to indicate organic disease. This method and in the other patient in remission but with high FCP the is a simple and noninvasive way to assess excretion of disease is activated one month later. Although the patients PMNs and macrophages into the gut lumen, and it is not were considered ‘in remission’, the high FCP values showed expensive. FCP values can be used to evaluate the response continuous mucosal
