Gut, 1988,29, 1595-1602
KEYWORDS: brother, achalasia, brother brother, dysphagia, oesophageal, family, son, narrowingofogj, sister, fig, spasm, oesophagus, years, contractions, father


Gut, 1988,29, 1595-1602 Case report Family occurrence of achalasia and diffuse spasm of the oesophagus T FRIELING, W BERGES, F BORCHARD, H J LUBKE, P ENCK, AND M WIENBECK FromtheDepartmentsofGastroenterologyandPathology, UniversityofDusseldorf, Dusseldorf, FRGermany SUMMARY Inviewoftheunknownaetiology ofachalasiaanddiffuseoesophagealspasmwereport four families (father/son, mother/son, brother/brother, cousin/cousin) with achalasia and oeso- phageal spasm examined by radiology, endoscopy and manometry. Family occurrence of oesophageal motor disorders supports the hypothesis that a genetic trait may play a role in the pathogenesis. The family coincidence of achalasia and oesophageal spasm supports a close relationshipbetweenthetwodiseases. Achalasia and diffuse oesophageal spasm of the tent regurgitation for one year before admission. oesophagus are diseases of unknown aetiology. Barium swallow showed moderate dilatation of the Achalasia is characterised by the absence of peri- oesophagus, tertiary contractions, and absence of stalsisinthe bodyoftheoesophagusandafailure of LOS relaxation. Oesophageal manometry revealed the lower oesophageal sphincter (LOS) to relax in simultaneous contractions of low amplitudes and responsetodeglutition.' Simultaneousandrepetitive incomplete relaxation of the LOS in response to contractions of high amplitude and long duration deglutition(Fig. 1,top). Thepatientbecameasymp- withanormalfunctionoftheLOSarethecharacter- tomaticafterpneumaticdilatationoftheLOS. istics ofdiffuse oesophageal spasm. The yearly inci- denceofachalasiais0.6to1 0/100000.21 Instancesof CASE 2 reported family occurrence of achalasia have led to A 64 year old father complained of moderate dys- thehypothesis thatgeneticfactorsmaybeimportant phagia, intermittent substernal pain in response to in the pathogenesis of the disease. We report four swallowing, occasional regurgitation, andsymptoms families in which several members hadsymptomsof worsening during stress over 14 years. Radiology achalasia and diffuse oesophageal spasm, respect- revealedamarkedlydilatedandtortuousoesophagus ively (Table 1). Horizontal andverticaltransmission with narrowing at the oesophagogastric junction occurred in these families, suggesting that endo- (Fig. 2, left). At oesophagoscopy retention oeso- genousaswellasexogenousfactorscontributetothe phagitiswasfound.Manometryshowedhypomotility disease. ofthe oesophagus andafailure ofthe LOS to relax. Thepatientrefusedtherapy. Family1 FamilyII CASE 1 A 36 year old man with retrosternal discomfort for CASE 3 eight years and progressive dysphagia and intermit- A 50yearoldman noticeddysphagia and regurgita- tion since puberty. The patient could take liquids Address for correspondence: Dr med Thomas Frieling, Dept of Gastro- only in an upright position. Cardiomyotomy and Germany. fundoplicationwerecarriedoutatage37years.Two Receivedforpublication19May1988. years later an epiphrenic diverticula was resected. 1596 Frieling, Berges, Borchard, Lubke, Enck,andWienbeck After initial symptom improvement dysphagia Oesophageal motility recordings, showed simul- reappeared seven years later. Radiology revealed taneous high amplitude contractions (up to 500 spastic contractions in the middle and lower part of mmHg)ofprolongedduration (upto 13sec) (Fig. 1, the oesophagus (Fig. 2, right). Hypermotility and bottom). The patient was successfully treated with pseudodiverticula were seen
