Sadangi et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2026) 26:170 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: green, tick, space, green space, spaces, risk, study, ticks, green spaces, tick-borne, research, specimens, ugs, using, exposure


made. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article’s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article’s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will Background risk of acquiring infections in UGS due to the higher Vector-borne diseases (VBDs) constitute 17% of the frequency of human visits to UGS . estimated global burden of all infectious diseases, Several factors influence the presence, abundance, and leading to more than 700,000 deaths annually . distribution of ticks and TBPs in green spaces, includ- Approximately 6.3 billion people are at risk of vector- ing landscape connectivity and composition, abundance borne illnesses, leading to 300 million cases annually of host species, and local habitat types . . Tick-borne diseases (TBDs) constitute a dis- However, the impact of these factors on the distribution proportionately high share of all VBDs reported in of vectors and pathogen transmission along an urbanisa- North America and Europe . The arachnid tion gradient is poorly deciphered . This research vectors are obligate hematophagous ectoparasites that study aims to evaluate the impact of three key factors: transmit several pathogens of medical and veterinary (1) landscape connectivity, (2) host community, and (3) importance. The predominant tick species in Europe, landscape composition on the abundance and activity of Ixodes (I.) ricinus, can transmit a wide array of patho- ticks. gens, many of which (more than 20) are implicated Landscape connectivity sheds light on the degree of in human illnesses. Some widely known diseases in linkage between two green spaces, i.e. the flow of host humans and animals include Lyme Borreliosis (LB), species from one green space to another and their inter- tick-borne rickettsioses, anaplasmosis, babesiosis, actions with both environments . We hypothesise relapsing fever, and tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) [7, that connectivity between green spaces facilitates the 8]. movement of animals, which may introduce ticks to a The incidence of TBDs is increasing due to multi- green space or increase the number of hosts for the tick ple factors, such as the expanding geographical range population in a green space, thereby playing a crucial role of vectors, changes in land use, reforestation, habitat in introducing, establishing, and/or amplifying tick pop- fragmentation, and climate change, among others [6, ulations. This will influence TBP
