Sadangi et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2026) 26:170 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: green, tick, space, green space, spaces, risk, study, ticks, green spaces, tick-borne, research, specimens, ugs, using, exposure


a crucial role of vectors, changes in land use, reforestation, habitat in introducing, establishing, and/or amplifying tick pop- fragmentation, and climate change, among others [6, ulations. This will influence TBP circulation in the enzo- 7, 9]. Cases of TBDs have more than doubled in the otic cycles of connected green spaces . U.S. in the last two decades . In recent decades, The host community (small and medium-sized mam- Europe has also witnessed an increasing trend in the mals, dogs and cats, roe deer, wild boar, and birds) prevalence of TBE and bacterial TBDs, including LB found in urban and peri-urban areas can be mainte- . The diagnosis, management and treatment nance hosts for ticks and important reservoirs of TBPs of TBDs are hindered by low awareness of emerging . Several research studies have correlated a diseases and diagnostic inefficiency due to nonspe- higher abundance of tick populations with higher deer protective measures against tick bites and immediate preferences for animals commonly found in urban eco- removal of the tick post-bite, as vaccination is only systems, such as hedgehogs, foxes, hares, and compan- available against TBE . ion animals, can alter the diversity and prevalence of As urbanisation transforms the world, it is projected TBPs . The increasing presence of deer and wild that by 2050, nearly 68% of the global population boar in urban settings leads to viable tick populations, (around 6.68 billion people) will reside in urban areas, a shift in enzootic cycles of associated pathogens, and urban societies requires integrated management of Landscape composition and configuration (proportion human societies and the local ecosystem. A promis- and spatial arrangement of habitat types) play a signifi- ing initiative adopted in this direction is integrat- cant role in moderating the environmental conditions, ing green spaces to advance healthy lifestyle choices host movement, host community, and habitat usage in a among the urban population and halting biodiver- green space required for tick survival and development, sity loss . However, Urban Green Spaces (UGS) resulting in differences in tick abundance across habitat allergies and respiratory problems or poten- The risk of acquiring tick-borne infections is influ- tial breeding grounds for vectors that may facilitate enced by the “hazard” posed by the entomological risk disease spillover from wildlife or zoonotic diseases, and “exposure” to the hazard. The exposure is dependent among others . In the past decade, studies on upon the green space
