Sadangi et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2026) 26:170 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: green, tick, space, green space, spaces, risk, study, ticks, green spaces, tick-borne, research, specimens, ugs, using, exposure


risk disease spillover from wildlife or zoonotic diseases, and “exposure” to the hazard. The exposure is dependent among others . In the past decade, studies on upon the green space users’ usage of the green space, ticks have underscored the risk of acquiring tick-borne knowledge, risk perception, and preventative behav- pathogens (TBPs) in cities . The prevalence of ticks iours regarding tick bites . Integrating socio- and tick-borne infections among questing ticks in UGS demographic studies with tick surveillance in cities is is similar to rural areas [22–24], thereby increasing the important since UGS is frequented by many visitors who primarily perceive a low risk of tick bites in urban areas. Therefore, this research study adopts a holistic approach Research questions to measuring health risks of tick-borne infections in UGS by (1) identification, understanding, and prediction of the 1. How does tick abundance vary among green spaces abundance and geographic distribution of ticks and TBPs with differing landscape compositions, levels of and (2) understanding socio-demographic factors influ- connectivity, and host communities? encing exposure to tick bites in green spaces in cities. 2. What is the diversity and prevalence of tick-borne pathogens in UGS? Methods/design 3. What is the risk of humans acquiring tick-borne Aims and objectives infections in urban areas? UGS may pose potential health risks by exposing humans to TBPs circulating in the enzootic cycles of green spaces. Study setting Our research study aims to: The research study is set in Bonn and Cologne, North- Rhine Westphalia (NRW), Germany, as shown in Fig. 1. Objectives Bonn and Cologne have 335,789 and 1,092,520 inhabit- ants (as of 31 December 2023), respectively . 1. Assess the impact of landscape composition, In seven out of 16 federal states of Germany, including connectivity and host communities on the suitability North-Rhine Westphalia State, reporting for LB cases is of UGS for tick and TBP inhabitation. not mandatory . 2. Investigate the dynamics of tick-borne pathogen infection rates across different UGS. Research design 3. Evaluate the risk of potential transmission of tick- The study is set in public green spaces of the Bonn- borne infections to humans across different UGS Cologne region frequently visited by residents in daily and determine the factors influencing these human life and for weekend activities. A wide array of activities, family to visiting animal reserves or hiking, are practised in these green spaces. UGS, as depicted in Fig. 2, serve
