Sadangi et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2026) 26:170 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: green, tick, space, green space, spaces, risk, study, ticks, green spaces, tick-borne, research, specimens, ugs, using, exposure


life and for weekend activities. A wide array of activities, family to visiting animal reserves or hiking, are practised in these green spaces. UGS, as depicted in Fig. 2, serve as shared environments where humans, host animals, and vectors coexist. While these areas provide ecological and recreational benefits, they also facilitate interactions Fig. 1 Bonn and Cologne Cities of Germany: study site for the research study Fig. 2 Illustration of UGS serving as shared environments for humans, wildlife, vectors, and pathogens. Ticks will be collected in public green spaces at 3–5 sampling spots, such as (A) Woodland, (B) Shrubs, (C) Unmowed land and (D) Mowed land, representing various sites humans interact with while using green spaces. Additionally, ticks will be collected at dog-walking areas if present in the green space Fig. 3 Framework for assessment of human health risks to tick-borne infections in urban green spaces (UGS) between wildlife, vectors and pathogens, potentially the laboratory for infection rates with TBPs. Assessment increasing the risk of zoonotic diseases. of the exposure will be done as illustrated in the right box, The research study observes the complex issue of the risk by counts of visitors, population density around the green of acquiring tick-borne infections in UGS through a socio- space, and a Knowledge-Attitude-Practice (KAP) survey ecological lens. The study aims to understand the risk of with green space users in the UGS. As depicted in the mid- acquiring tick-borne infections in UGS through (1) assess- dle box, hazards and exposure will be integrated to model ment of hazard, (2) assessment of exposure, and (3) inte- the risk posed by UGS in potentially transmitting TBPs to gration of hazard and exposure variables to calculate risk, green space users. as conceptualised in Fig. 3. Figure 3 illustrates the research design of the longitudinal risk-assessment study. As Selection of green spaces and sampling spots depicted in the left box, the hazard will be assessed by deter- The presence, abundance, and distribution of I. ricinus ticks mining the entomological hazard posed by ticks in UGS and vary temporally and spatially, depending upon a multitude characterizing the environmental factors (such as landscape of factors such as habitat type, availability of hosts, and abi- composition, connectivity, host biodiversity, and microcli- otic factors such as landscape characteristics and microcli- mate) influencing the hazard, for which questing ticks will mate . We hypothesise that landscape composition, be collected at several
