Sadangi et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2026) 26:170 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: green, tick, space, green space, spaces, risk, study, ticks, green spaces, tick-borne, research, specimens, ugs, using, exposure


and microcli- otic factors such as landscape characteristics and microcli- mate) influencing the hazard, for which questing ticks will mate . We hypothesise that landscape composition, be collected at several sites, with varying landscape features, connectivity, and host biodiversity of UGS play an impor- habitat types and host biodiversity and then examined in tant role in the abundance of ticks and the prevalence of associated pathogens. The green spaces and sampling spots rod sewn into one end to which the rope is tied. The rope in Bonn and Cologne have been selected to represent UGS will be dragged or flagged (horizontally or vertically) along with differing landscape connectivity, composition, host the vegetation structures (as depicted in Fig. 5), allowing for community, and habitat types to study their impact on tick maximum contact of the flag with the sampling spot . In total, eleven green spaces (seven in Bonn and four in flags will be inspected on both sides for tick specimens after Cologne, as shown in Fig. 4), broadly categorised into forests every 3 m of flagging. In case of any doubts in recognising a (N = 3: 2 urban forests; 1 peri-urban forest), green spaces specimen, a magnifying glass will be used. connected to/ in the vicinity of forests (N = 4), and green From March to October in 2024 and 2025, tick and patho- spaces not connected to/separated from the other green gen surveillance will be conducted monthly on clear days spaces by urban infrastructure (N = 4), have been selected as between 9:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. in 11 urban green spaces. study sites for tick surveillance and exposure assessment, as Within each green space, 3 to 5 sampling spots (300–500 detailed in Table 1. The selected green spaces have varying m²) will be surveyed monthly , resulting in a total presence of deer, broadly classified into four categories, as of 40 spots across 11 green spaces, covering approximately described in Table 1: (i) absence of deer (N = 4), (ii) presence 4,000 m². The spots are distributed across five habitat types: of captive deer (N = 2), (iii) presence of free-roaming deer 10 woodland spots (1,000 m²), 11 shrubland spots (1,100 (N = 3) and (iv) presence of both free-roaming and captive m²), 10 unmowed land spots (1,000 m²), 6 mowed land deer (N = 2). Information on deer presence was obtained spots (600 m²), and
