Sadangi et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2026) 26:170 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: green, tick, space, green space, spaces, risk, study, ticks, green spaces, tick-borne, research, specimens, ugs, using, exposure


presence of both free-roaming and captive m²), 10 unmowed land spots (1,000 m²), 6 mowed land deer (N = 2). Information on deer presence was obtained spots (600 m²), and 3 dog-walking areas (300 m²). This through direct personal observations made during tick col- design enables standardised and high-resolution tempo- lection activities and was corroborated through informal ral monitoring of tick presence and associated pathogens interviews with green space management officials. In each across diverse urban habitats. The time duration of March green space, ticks will be collected from a total of three to to October was selected to take into account the higher five sampling spots. Each spot represents a distinct and activity of I. ricinus ticks in these months compared to win- prevalent habitat type within the green space (e.g. woodland, ter months in Germany . The study aims to account for shrubs, unmowed land, mowed land, or dog-walking areas). the bimodal activity of I. ricinus ticks, as reported in several Each habitat type is represented by one sampling spot in a studies , with an initial peak in the spring followed by green space, and the total number of spots per green space a lower peak in the autumn. The characteristics of tick col- reflects the diversity of habitat types present, typically rang- lection in this research study are outlined in Table 2; Fig. 5. ing from three to five. These sampling spots are selected in Temperature and relative humidity will be measured with a relative proximity within the green space to minimise differ- Trotec BC06 Thermohygrometer at ground level before and ences in the environmental conditions, apart from the vege- after tick collection at each sampling spot to consider their tation structure they represent. While the woodland habitat critical role in the abundance of ticks. The average of the characteristically contains dead leaf litter and twigs-cover two recordings will be used to indicate the microclimatic lying under a continuous stretch of trees (of at least 20 m2), condition of each collection. shrub vegetation up to a height of 1 m, present at the edge of woodland or alone constitutes the shrub sampling spot. Storage of tick specimens Ticks will also be collected at unmowed land habitat type While larvae specimens will be pooled in batches of 3–12 (areas with grass up to a height of 1 m, left unmowed for a per collection, nymph and adult
