Sadangi et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2026) 26:170 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: green, tick, space, green space, spaces, risk, study, ticks, green spaces, tick-borne, research, specimens, ugs, using, exposure


type While larvae specimens will be pooled in batches of 3–12 (areas with grass up to a height of 1 m, left unmowed for a per collection, nymph and adult samples will be col- time of the year) and mowed land covers (areas constantly lected individually. All the distinct tick specimens (larvae, mowed by the city administration as a part of management nymph, and adults) collected will be stored in 450 µL of practices). In addition, ticks will be collected at dog-walking guanidine thiocyanate-based media, labelled with the areas within UGS. The research study encompasses 40 sam- date, sampling spot, and site of collection, and stored at 4 pling spots (10 Woodland, 11 shrubs, 10 unmowed land, 6 °C until further examination. The guanidine thiocyanate- mowed land, and 3 dog-walking areas) to monitor ticks and based media is a strong protein denaturant and prevents associated pathogens, as shown in Fig. 4. nucleic acid degradation by nucleases, ensuring its stabil- ity for molecular diagnostics . Methods for assessment of hazard Collection of tick specimens Analysis of tick specimens for determining the prevalence The flagging/dragging method of tick collection will be used of tick-borne pathogens in this research study for the surveillance of tick abundance, Tick specimens collected for entomological surveillance will pathogen prevalence, and assessing host-seeking phenology undergo morphological identification, and the prevalence . Questing ticks will be collected by dragging and/or of tick-borne pathogens will be analysed in the laboratory flagging a 1 m² cloth over a 100 m² area at each sampling according to the workflow outlined in Fig. 6. The individual spot . The 1m2 flag is supported by a metal dowel steps of the process are described in detail below. Fig. 4 Ticks will be collected at sampling spots representing woodland, shrubs, mowed land, unmowed land, and dog-walking areas structures in (1) seven green spaces in Bonn and (2) four green spaces in Cologne Fig. 4 (continued) Table 1 Selection of green spaces with varying levels of Table 2 Characteristics of collection of tick specimens at the landscape connectivity, composition and deer presence: (i) selected green spaces in Bonn and Cologne regions in Germany absence of deer (-), (ii) presence of deer in captivity (+), (iii) (Duration: March-October 2024 and 2025) presence of free-roaming deer (++) and (iv) presence of both Study setting Bonn and Cologne regions of free-roaming and deer in captivity (+++) Western Germany Types
