Sadangi et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2026) 26:170 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: green, tick, space, green space, spaces, risk, study, ticks, green spaces, tick-borne, research, specimens, ugs, using, exposure


for short-term preservation or Following the identification of ticks using taxonomic at -80 °C for long-term storage (> 2 weeks) to maintain keys, individual tick specimens (including larvae pools) RNA stability, which is necessary for TBE RNA detection will be crushed with sterile plungers to fragment the chi- in tick specimens. tin exoskeleton and release the intracellular compo- nents into the lysis buffer (guanidine thiocyanate-based Molecular identification of I. ricinus ticks media). Subsequently, 30 µL of recombinant-proteinase Ixodes ricinus ticks are the most abundantly reported K will be added to individual tick specimens, followed by tick vector in our region . However, to avoid overnight incubation at 56 °C, with continuous shaking misidentification with closely related species like I. inopi- . natus, I. hexagonus, or I. persulcatus, molecular iden- tification of I. ricinus tick specimens will be done using Isolation of nucleic acid from tick specimens real-time PCR. If the specimen is not identified as an I. Tick specimens in batches of 96 samples will be pro- ricinus tick, the amplified PCR product will be Sanger- cessed to isolate nucleic acid using Chemagic 360 Instru- sequenced to determine the species type. ment following the manufacturer’s instructions. Total PCR reactions will be set up in an end volume of 20 µL, nucleic acid isolation through Chemagic 360 Instrument which includes 10 µL of Promega GoTaq® Probe qPCR utilises magnetic beads to separate and purify genetic Master Mix, 10 µM forward primer, and reverse primer material from the tick specimens. Specifically, we will each (IXO-I2-F4 and IXO-I2-R4) to amplify the Ixodes Fig. 6 Flowchart of the steps to analyse tick specimens collected at the eleven green spaces in the laboratory Table 3 Thermal cycling profile of the PCR amplification process southern, north-eastern and patchy north-western parts of for identification of I. ricinus ticks Germany . Aliquots of nucleic acid samples from 10 tick Step Temperature (°C) Time Cycles specimens will be pooled to detect Anaplasma phagocyto- GoTaq® DNA Polymerase activation 95 2 min 1 philum DNA, Babesia spp. DNA, and tick-borne encepha- Denaturation 95 5 s 40 litis virus RNA since the prevalence of these pathogens is Annealing and elongation 60 30 s relatively low in our region (unpublished data). The genetic sequences of primers and probes to be used in this research spp. ITS2 gene, 2.5 µM of Iri-12-P4 probe (specific for study is detailed in Table 4. While specimens previously
