Sadangi et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2026) 26:170 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: green, tick, space, green space, spaces, risk, study, ticks, green spaces, tick-borne, research, specimens, ugs, using, exposure


1 °C each cycle) cycler using the thermal set-up specified in Table 9. Fluo- Elongation 72 °C 30 s rescence will be detected in the Cy5 channel. Denaturation 95 °C 20 s 30 Annealing 60 °C 30 s Elongation 72 °C 30 s Final elongation 72 °C 7 min 1 Table 8 Thermal cycling profile for the duplex qPCR assay for and human infrastructures, which can either facilitate or detecting Anaplasma phagocytophilum and Babesia spp. DNA in obstruct the movement of organisms, mainly deer, across tick lysates green spaces . The cumulative effort for animals Step Tempera- Duration Cy- (i.e. deer) to move from one green space to another will ture (°C) cles be measured in terms of Cost Distance using QGIS. In GoTaq® DNA Polymerase 95 2 min 1 activation this way, each sampling area will be assigned a connectiv- Denaturation 95 5 s 45 ity score, which will be used to assess the impact of con- Annealing and Elongation 60 30 s nectivity on tick abundance. The higher the cost distance, the lower the connectivity of green spaces and vice-versa. Table 9 Thermal cycling profile for nucleic acid samples from tick specimens, used for detection of TBEV in tick specimens Assessment of mammalian host community in green spaces Steps Tempera- Duration Cy- ture (°C) cles As we hypothesise that the host community of a green Reverse Transcription 45 15 min 1 space influences its suitability to sustain tick populations Reverse transcriptase inactivation 95 2 min 1 and dispersal to other connected green spaces, it is nec- and GoTaq® DNA Polymerase essary to determine the host composition of each green activation space. We will sample carrion flies and analyse the DNA Denaturation 95 15 s 40 they acquired while feeding on animal faeces or car- Annealing and elongation 60 60 s casses. Flies will be collected monthly from July to Sep- tember in 2024 and April to July in 2025 using the fly trap Assessment of landscape composition and connectivity method. Two artificial fly baits, covered by a net mesh measures to prevent direct contact with the flies, will be deployed Landscape composition and connectivity can be analysed in each green space, accompanied by a surrounding net using publicly available national or interna- trap, as shown in Fig. 7. The design allows flies to enter tional land cover datasets, including Corine Land Cover from the bottom while preventing their
