Sadangi et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2026) 26:170 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: green, tick, space, green space, spaces, risk, study, ticks, green spaces, tick-borne, research, specimens, ugs, using, exposure


available national or interna- trap, as shown in Fig. 7. The design allows flies to enter tional land cover datasets, including Corine Land Cover from the bottom while preventing their escape, ensuring (CLC) [72–75]. These resources provide standardised, effective capture. The artificial baits will be sourced from large-scale land use information suitable for ecological Feldner GmbH. The flies will be preserved in a falcon research and spatial planning. In our research study, the tube containing cotton soaked in 90% ethanol and stored assessment of landscape composition and connectivity at -20 °C. In the laboratory, nucleic acid will be extracted will be conducted using regional land cover data (Land- from the fly specimens, followed by PCR assays targeting bedeckung NRW Gesamt) available through OpenGeo- mammalian genes [76–78]. The resulting PCR products data.NRW portal with a positional accuracy of 1–2 m. will then undergo sequencing, enabling the taxonomic Among the 15 categories of land cover types, 12 land- identification of the mammalian species based on the cover types relevant to our study sites classified into 5 obtained genetic data [76–78]. major land cover types will be considered for final analy- sis: (1) Woodland consisting of deciduous and conifer- Statistical analysis ous trees, (2) Shrubs: bushes and shrubs, (3) Grass: The statistical data analysis will be conducted using R. herbaceous vegetation – grass, crops, perennials, and Analysis of tick density, pathogen prevalence, co-infec- Ferns (4) Water Sources: Inland Water and (5) Imper- tion and environmental factors influencing tick abun- vious surfaces consisting of loose material, solid rock dance and TBP prevalence will be done using descriptive and urban infrastructure such as high-rise buildings, and and inferential statistical methods. The significance civil engineering structures. The proportion of these land threshold will be set at p < 0.05. The density of ticks (DO- cover types within three buffer zones (100 m, 500 m, and Larvae, -Nymph, and -Adult) per 100 m2, as well as the 1000 m) around the centroid of all the geo-coded sam- prevalence of pathogens, will be determined across pling plots at each green space will be retrieved using green spaces, habitat type, and month. Co-infection QGIS. The impact of land cover types on tick presence rates among pathogens will be computed for TBPs, and and abundance will be studied at local (100 m), interme- the co-occurrence of certain pathogens more frequently diate (500 m), and landscape levels (1000 m). than others
