Sadangi et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2026) 26:170 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: green, tick, space, green space, spaces, risk, study, ticks, green spaces, tick-borne, research, specimens, ugs, using, exposure


for TBPs, and and abundance will be studied at local (100 m), interme- the co-occurrence of certain pathogens more frequently diate (500 m), and landscape levels (1000 m). than others will be examined using Chi-Square or Fisher’s The assessment of landscape (or functional) connec- Exact Test. The monthly density of ticks will be compared tivity will be done through the Least Cost Path Analysis between 2024 and 2025 using paired t-tests or Wilcoxon (LCPA) on the land cover dataset. The method relies on signed-rank tests, depending upon the normality of the modelling host animals’ ease or resistance as they move data (to be assessed using the Shapiro-Wilk Test). Envi- from one green space to another. Resistance scores will be ronmental factors such as cost distance, host composi- assigned to land cover categories such as vegetation types tion (e.g. deer presence), land cover structure, habitat type, year, month, relative humidity, and temperature will Visitor count (V) be examined for their impact on tick abundance using Since there is no official recording of the number of visi- Generalised linear mixed models (GLMMs). It is also tors to the specific green spaces, the number of people planned to model entomological-risk zones within urban and dogs visiting each green space will be counted dur- areas, which will be identified using the spatial risk mod- ing each tick collection. Visitor counts will be counted elling tool Maximum Entropy Modeling (MaxEnt). This in a 20-minute period at the most trafficked areas of habitat suitability prediction model will be incorporated the green space, such as parking spots, playgrounds, or with environmental variables, tick presence and abun- wildlife enclosures every month from March to October dance data, and infection prevalence to estimate high- after the tick surveillance. The coordinates and charac- risk areas for tick-borne infections. teristics of the most trafficked area, where visitors will be counted, are detailed in Additional File 1. To provide a Methods for assessment of exposure uniform measure of human presence across UGS, the vis- In the systematic evaluation of green space users’ like- itor count (V) recorded over the 20-minute observation lihood of tick bites and subsequently acquiring TBPs, period will be extrapolated to estimate the total number population density around the green space, visitor count, of visitors visiting a green space daily. the proportion of green space users engaging in high-risk activities, and scores of knowledge, attitude, and practice In-field survey
