Sadangi et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2026) 26:170 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: green, tick, space, green space, spaces, risk, study, ticks, green spaces, tick-borne, research, specimens, ugs, using, exposure


green space, visitor count, of visitors visiting a green space daily. the proportion of green space users engaging in high-risk activities, and scores of knowledge, attitude, and practice In-field survey concerning tick-borne diseases will be considered for the Assessing the human-tick interactions is a crucial step assessment of exposure. for a comprehensive understanding of the risk of TBP transmission in UGS. The risk of exposure to ticks and Population density data potential transmission of TBPs at a UGS is influenced by The population census data for Bonn and Cologne will be the green space users: – the type of activities performed, sourced from the respective city administrations. Using green space users’ knowledge of TBDs, perceived risk of this dataset, the population density will be estimated for tick bites, adoption of preventive behaviours, and history 1km2 (to approximate potential daily visitors) and 9km2 of tick-bites at the green space. To understand the sus- (to approximate potential weekend visitors) around the ceptibility of green space users to tick bites, an in-field centroid of the sampling spots in each green space. This survey will be conducted with green space users to assess methodology follows the approach reported by Janzén et their usage patterns, knowledge, risk perception, and al. (2024) . preventative behaviours specific to the green space they were using at the time of the survey. The selection and enrolment of participants, along with the calculation of the required participant count, are detailed in Table 10. Table 10 Eligibility Criteria, participant recruitment and sample of knowledge and attitude scores against practice scores size for the In-field survey if a significant correlation exists. Correlation analysis will Eligibility Criteria: Participants must be 18 or older to be included be conducted using Pearson or Spearman coefficients to in the study. No additional exclusion criteria will be applied during the selection of respondents. examine associations between socio-demographic factors Participant Recruitment: Individuals will be approached in green (age, gender, level of education, net household income, spaces and invited to participate in the research study. Participants will status of children below the age of 13 in the household, be free to withdraw from an interview at any time without incurring nationality), history of tick bites, green space usage, and any damages. The participation was anonymous in nature. type of green space with knowledge, risk perception, and Sample Size calculation: The sample size for the Infield survey is calcu- preventative
