Sadangi et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2026) 26:170 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: green, tick, space, green space, spaces, risk, study, ticks, green spaces, tick-borne, research, specimens, ugs, using, exposure


any damages. The participation was anonymous in nature. type of green space with knowledge, risk perception, and Sample Size calculation: The sample size for the Infield survey is calcu- preventative behaviours. Univariable regression analy- lated using the formula, Required sample size = [z2 * p(1-p)] / e2 sis will be performed, and variables with P-values ≤ 0.25 a. z = Z-score. For the research study, it is 1.96, corresponding to the 9% will be selected for multiple regression analyses . The confidence interval value. results will be reported using regression coefficients, 95% b. e = margin of error. For the research study, it is ± 5% confidence intervals (CI), and p-values. Statistical signifi- c. p. = standard of deviation. For the research study, it is 0.5 cance will be set up at p < 0.05. For the total population of 1.4 million inhabitants for the cities of Cologne and Bonn, the study population was calculated to be ≈ 385 Integration of hazard and exposure to characterise people. Among the 11 green spaces, it is expected to obtain 105, 140, risk at UGS and 140 surveys, respectively, in 3 categories: (i) Forest (N = 3), (ii) green space in the vicinity of/connected to a forest (N = 4), and (iii) green The risk of acquiring TBPs in UGS will be estimated by space far away from/separated from the forest (N = 4) of green spaces. integrating entomological hazard and exposure. The risk can be estimated, as Janzén et al. (2024) reported, by The variables assessed for each category in the in-field summing the ordinal values (1 (low), 2 (Moderate) and 3 survey are described in Table 11. The questionnaire for (High)) of the tick hazard (abundance of ticks, prevalence the in-field survey can be found in the additional infor- of TBPs) and the human exposure (visitor numbers) . calculated in terms of “weighted infection risk”, as sug- Statistical analysis gested by Sormunen et al. (2020), factoring in the haz- Descriptive statistics will provide insight into the vari- ard, visitor count, and population density . Weighted ables assessed in the in-field survey data: frequencies infection risk was calculated as Hazard × estimated visi- and percentages for categorical variables, mean values ± tor counts at the green space or Hazard × estimates of standard deviation for normally distributed continuous population density. However, the current research study variables, and median with interquartile range for
