Sadangi et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2026) 26:170 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: green, tick, space, green space, spaces, risk, study, ticks, green spaces, tick-borne, research, specimens, ugs, using, exposure


due to ticks wilderness (During) the last 12 months achieved - Probability of checking for and any reported tick- - Net household ticks (After) borne illness income 1-The date of the Interview and the Interview location (the green space used at the time of the interview) were noted at the start of the interview. 2- Before/During/ After the usage of green space on the day of the Interview. *- Observed by the interviewer during the interview Discussion (DOT) and the infection prevalence (IP), i.e. H= DOT i i x IP, where i is respective green space, DOT is the tick Systemic collection, analysis, and dissemination of data i 21]. Exposure (E) to ticks will be modelled as a func- critical to disease surveillance and necessary for disease tion of visitor counts (V) and variables assessed in the management . The research will provide a holistic In-field survey, the type of activity performed (Activity approach to assessing the risk of acquiring tick-borne Score, A), the practice of preventative behaviour (PB), infections in urban areas. It will address knowledge gaps and self-reported incidents of tick bites for humans and in public health implications of TBPs in urban areas by dogs visiting the UGS (SRTB). The Activity Score (A) providing a comprehensive understanding of tick abun- will be calculated by summing the weighted contribu- dance, the prevalence of TBPs, and its influencing factors, tions of different activities performed by visitors (with as well as factors affecting human exposure. To answer high-risk activities assigned higher weight), considering research questions 1 and 2, the study will assess the ento- the proportion of participants doing each activity, their mological hazard of tick bites in UGS, and understand visit frequency, and the average time spent per visit. The the risk posed by ticks as disease vectors in UGS. Further, Preventative Behaviour Score (PB) will be calculated as it will evaluate the critical elements of hazard assessment the average proportion of visitors engaging in different such as tick populations’ abundance, distribution, infec- preventative behaviours, with all behaviours weighed tion rates with pathogens, host associations, and envi- equally. Exposure will be estimated with the formula, E = ronmental factors impacting these dynamics. Research i V × A × (1 − PB), where i is the respective green space. question 3 will be addressed in the research study with i i i The self-reported tick bite incidents (SRTB) will be
