Sadangi et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2026) 26:170 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: green, tick, space, green space, spaces, risk, study, ticks, green spaces, tick-borne, research, specimens, ugs, using, exposure


− PB), where i is the respective green space. question 3 will be addressed in the research study with i i i The self-reported tick bite incidents (SRTB) will be used the assessment of exposure of green space users to TBPs to validate and adjust the formula. by conducting a KAP survey in the UGS. Exposure will Hazard and exposure, determined as H= DOT x IP be modelled as a function of visitor count, activities per- i i i and E = V × A × (1 − PB) respectively, will be integrated formed in the green space, and preventative behaviours i i i i to estimate the risk score (R) for each green space, practised by green space users. The risk factors associ- i ated with tick exposure in the green space will be char- R=(DOT IP) i i × i acterised. Additionally, the research study will employ a × (V i × A i× (1 − PB i )), quantitative risk assessment model to estimate the like- lihood of human exposure to TBPs. The data obtained where i is the respective green space, DOT is the density from entomological surveillance and exposure assess- of ticks per 100 m2, IP is the infection prevalence among ment will be integrated to calculate the risk of acquiring ticks, V is the visitor count, A represents the activity tick-borne infections in various UGS. This will provide score, and PB is the preventative behaviour score. a comprehensive framework for understanding the eco- A multiple regression analysis will be conducted using logical and behavioural factors influencing tick-borne the calculated risk score as the dependent variable to infection risks in urban environments. Last, the research identify factors influencing the risk scores. Explanatory study aims to provide city administrations with evidence- variables will include ecological and socio-behavioural based public health strategies and recommendations for factors such as green space type, micro-climatic vari- urban planning. ables, landscape connectivity and composition, host The study has certain limitations: The key limitation composition, knowledge scores, attitude scores, and his- is the focus on characterising the risk of acquiring tick- tory of tick-bites. The results will be reported as regres- borne infections instead of tick-borne diseases. The dis- sion coefficients, 95% confidence intervals, and p-values, ease development after acquiring an infection depends allowing for a robust assessment of the ecological and on several factors, such as immunity, awareness of tick- socio-behavioural
