Sadangi et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2026) 26:170 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: green, tick, space, green space, spaces, risk, study, ticks, green spaces, tick-borne, research, specimens, ugs, using, exposure


confidence intervals, and p-values, ease development after acquiring an infection depends allowing for a robust assessment of the ecological and on several factors, such as immunity, awareness of tick- socio-behavioural determinants of TBP infection risk in borne diseases among the public and medical practitio- UGS. ners, and availability of effective medical diagnostics, By integrating the hazard and exposure data, ecological which is not covered in this research study. Secondly, and socio-behavioural risk maps for the region of Bonn- urban green spaces are complex socio-ecological sys- Cologne will be designed to visualise spatial data featur- tems, and numerous interacting factors influence the risk ing the presence, abundance, and distribution of ticks of acquiring tick-borne infections. As with any model, and tick-borne pathogens and the risk of transmission our risk score simplifies a complex and interacting sys- of infections due to usage patterns, knowledge, risk per- tem and cannot capture all factors influencing tick-borne ceptions, and preventative behaviours adopted at various infection risk in urban green spaces. To address this, we green spaces through projected risk predictions . employ multiple regression analysis to investigate the impact of ecological and behavioural variables on risk. Still, in line with “all models are wrong, but some are the Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF), Germany as part useful,” the model should be seen as a comparative tool, of the “Junior Research Groups Global Change: Climate, Environment and not a precise predictor. Another limitation is the sole Health” program of the Forschung für Nachhaltigkeit (FONA) strategy (Funding Number: 03LW0192). The funding details of the project can be found online . The funding agency had no role in the design of the research study or livestock from consideration, which are also affected by preparation of the manuscript. The authors are responsible for the research tick-borne diseases – leaving a gap in understanding the study’s design, ethical approval, and collection and processing of data. broader implication of tick-borne infections in the One Data availability Health context. The data collected as part of this research study will be available to the personnel of the GreenBalance project at the Institute of Hygiene and A Activity Score access the data collected during the research study may contact Dr Timo B Borrelia Falkenberg, Principal Investigator, GreenBalance Projekt, Institut für Hygiene DNA Deoxyribonucleic acid Campus 1 53127 Bonn Tel. 0228-287- 19517, [timo.falkenberg[at]ukbonn.de] DOT Density of ticks/100m² (mailto: ) . E Exposure H
