Sadangi et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2026) 26:170 BMC Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: green, tick, space, green space, spaces, risk, study, ticks, green spaces, tick-borne, research, specimens, ugs, using, exposure


Borrelia Falkenberg, Principal Investigator, GreenBalance Projekt, Institut für Hygiene DNA Deoxyribonucleic acid Campus 1 53127 Bonn Tel. 0228-287- 19517, [timo.falkenberg[at]ukbonn.de] DOT Density of ticks/100m² (mailto: ) . E Exposure H Hazard I Ixodes Declarations IP Infection prevalence KAP Knowledge, Attitude, Practice Ethical approval and consent to participate LB Lyme Borreliosis The current study is a part of the research study, “Impact of Landscape min Minutes Composition and Connectivity on Tick Prevalence, Pathogen Dynamics, and PCR Polymerase chain reaction approved research study involves (i) the collection of biological specimens qPCR Real-time Polymerase chain reaction (ticks and flies) at the eleven selected green spaces in Germany’s Bonn R Risk and Cologne regions and (ii) carrying out an anonymous In-field survey RNA Ribonucleic acid with green-space users at these green spaces. Consent for participation in SRTB Self-reported tick bites the anonymous in-field survey will be sought through verbal agreement. TBD(s) Tick-borne disease(s) The collection and processing of data adhere strictly to the regulations of TBE Tick-borne encephalitis Datenschutz-Grundverordnung (DSGVO), Bundesdatenschutzgesetz (BDSG) TBP(s) Tick-borne pathogen(s) and Gesundheitsdatenschutzgesetz (GDSG). sec Second UGS Urban Green Space Consent for publication V Visitor Count Participants in the in-field survey will be informed about the use, processing and protection of their data, but no specific consent will be obtained to publish their anonymous data. Supplementary Information Competing interests The online version contains supplementary material available at h t t p s : / / d o i . o r The authors declare no competing interests. g / 1 0. 1 1 8 6 / s 1 2 8 7 9 - 0 2 5 - 1 2 3 6 4 - 6. Received: 18 March 2025 / Accepted: 11 December 2025 Supplementary Material 1: Coordinates of trafficked location in UGS where visitor counts will be done (PDF) Supplementary Material 2: Questionnaire for In-field survey - German version (PDF)
