NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: astragalus, liver, herbal, hepatotoxicity, injury, liver injury, pubmed pmid, pubmed, pmid, supplements, dietary, dietary supplements, effects, chinese, reported


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Astragalus. [Updated 2019 Apr 10]. Bookshelf URL: Astragalus Updated: April 10, 2019. OVERVIEW Introduction Astragalus is a traditional Chinese herbal medicine used as a general tonic and treatment for many conditions including diarrhea, upper respiratory infections, heart disease, hepatitis and cancer. Astragalus has not been associated with serum enzyme elevations during therapy nor in causing clinically apparent liver injury. Background Astragalus is an ancient traditional Chinese herbal medicine that is derived from roots of various Astragalus species that are native to China, Korea and North America. Called “Huang Qi” in Chinese traditional medcine, it is purported to have immunomodulatory, antioxidant, antiviral and cardiotonic activities and is used to treat stress, fatigue, pain, memory loss, viral infections, hypercholesterolemia, cancer, heart failure, and kidney and liver disease. It is also used as a general tonic to increase energy, reduce fatigue and counteract the effects of aging. Its efficacy in these conditions has not been shown in controlled prospective studies, but it has been used in traditional Chinese medicine for centuries and is currently becoming a popular herbal product in Western countries. Astragalus extracts have multiple chemical constituents and the specific active ingredient responsibility for its activity has not been identified. Constituents include triterpene glycosides, saponins (astragalosides), sterols, fatty acids, isoflavonoids and polysaccharides. Extracts of astragalus are often supplied as tablets or capsules which are taken once to three times daily. Astragalus is also supplied as liquids and teas. Side effects are uncommon and have not been clearly defined. Large doses can cause gastrointestinal upset, diarrhea, nausea and vomiting, probably because of direct irritation to the intestinal mucosa. Hepatotoxicity Astragalus is considered generally safe and without major adverse effects. In the few human studies that have been published there were no reports of serum enzyme elevations occurring during therapy and no mention of serious adverse events or hepatotoxicity. It has been shown to have hepatoprotective activities in animal models and has been used to treat liver diseases, although with uncertain efficacy. There have been no published reports of hepatotoxicity from astragalus, but it is present in many multiingredient products and the purity and potency of commercial preparations are not rigorously regulated. Thus, clinically apparent liver injury attributable to astragalus must be rare if it occurs at all. Likelihood score: E (unlikely cause of clinically apparent liver injury).
