NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: astragalus, liver, herbal, hepatotoxicity, injury, liver injury, pubmed pmid, pubmed, pmid, supplements, dietary, dietary supplements, effects, chinese, reported


are not rigorously regulated. Thus, clinically apparent liver injury attributable to astragalus must be rare if it occurs at all. Likelihood score: E (unlikely cause of clinically apparent liver injury). 2 LiverTox Mechanism of Injury The mechanism by which astragalus might cause hepatotoxicity is unclear. The possibility of mislabeling or adulteration with hepatotoxic herbal products is always an issue in commercial multiingredient dietary supplements. In vitro and in vivo studies have reported that astragalus is metabolized by the hepatic microsomal enzyme system and that it has some degree of inhibitory activity against several CYP enzyme isoforms. However, clinically apparent astragalus-drug interactions have not been reported. Outcome and Management Astragalus has not been reported to cause clinically apparent liver injury. Because of its possible effects on CYP activity, its potential for herb-drug interactions should be considered before it is used. Other Names: Huang Qi, Milk vetch, Radix astragalus Drug Class: Herbal and Dietary Supplements PRODUCT INFORMATION REPRESENTATIVE TRADE NAMES Astragalus – Generic DRUG CLASS Herbal and Dietary Supplements SUMMARY INFORMATION CHEMICAL FORMULA AND STRUCTURE DRUG CAS REGISTRY NUMBER MOLECULAR FORMULA STRUCTURE Astragalus 94166-93-5 Herbal Extract Not applicable ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY References updated: 10 April 2019 Abbreviations used: HDS, herbal and dietary supplements Zimmerman HJ. Unconventional drugs. Miscellaneous drugs and diagnostic chemicals. In, Zimmerman, HJ. Hepatotoxicity: the adverse effects of drugs and other chemicals on the liver. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott, 1999: pp. 731-4. (Expert review of hepatotoxicity published in 1999; several herbals are discussed, including comfrey, Jin Bu huan, germander, chaparral leaf, skullcap and valerian, but not astragalus). Seeff L, Stickel F, Navarro VJ. Hepatotoxicity of herbs and dietary supplements. In, Kaplowitz N, DeLeve LD, eds. Drug-induced liver disease. 3rd ed. Amsterdam: Elsevier, 2013, pp. 631-58. (Review of hepatotoxicity of HDS; astragalus is not discussed). Astragalus 3 No authors listed. Astragalus. In, Natural medicines: comprehensive database. Available at: http:// naturaldatabase.therapeuticresearch.com (Fact sheet on herbal medications and natural products including astragalus). Astragalus. In, PDR for Herbal Medicines. 4th ed. Montvale, New Jersey: Thomson Healthcare Inc. 2007: pp. 56-61. (Compilation of short monographs on herbal medications and dietary supplements). Schiano TD. Hepatotoxicity and complementary and alternative medicines. Clin Liver Dis 2003; 7: 453-73. PubMed PMID: 12879994. (Comprehensive review of herbal associated hepatotoxicity; astragalus is not listed as causing hepatotoxicity). Russo MW, Galanko JA, Shrestha R, Fried MW, Watkins P. Liver transplantation for acute liver failure from drug-induced liver injury in the United States. Liver
