Pituitary-Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes: Adults
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, tumours, tumour, adenomas, hypothalamic, endocrine, hypophysitis, lesions, treatment, hormone, surgery, symptoms, clinical, diagnosis


ABSTRACT Space Occupying Lesions in the hypothalamic/pituitary region include tumours derived from endocrine or neural tissues, as well as a wide spectrum of more uncommon conditions such us inflammatory processes or metastases. The clinical expression of these lesions depends not only of their nature, but also on the size and position of the lesion, with some common patterns that can lead the clinician to the diagnosis, being some of them clinically silent. There is an increasing interest in the study of the molecular abnormalities in these uncommon conditions, and new drugs have started to be used as a result of the understanding of the pathways involved in the tumourigenesis. A literature search in Pubmed was performed, focused on articles referred to craniopharyngioma, non-functioning pituitary adenomas, pituitary carcinoma, hypophysitis, germ-cell tumours, chordoma, cysts and empty sella syndrome. Articles published from 2010 to 2015 in high impact factor journals were selected. Selected articles were mainly referred to new signaling pathways involved in tumourigenesis, somatic mutations, expressed receptors, new treatments and guidelines. Review articles were also used. This chapter reviews the pathogenesis, clinical manifestations and treatments of the main hypothalamic/pituitary space occupying lesions. It also provides a general and practical approach for the evaluation of these patients. INTRODUCTION Space Occupying Lesions in the hypothalamic/pituitary region include tumours derived from endocrine or neural tissues, metastatic tumours, chronic inflammatory processes, cystic lesions or vascular aneurysms ( Table 1 ). These lesions may be clinically silent and discovered accidentally when skull X-ray, cranial CT, or MRI is performed for other reasons. These tumours are called pituitary incidentalomas and the management depends on the nature and position of the lesion (1). More frequently, a variety of endocrine, ophthalmological or neurological symptoms lead the clinician to the diagnosis of a space occupying lesion within the sellar or supra-sellar region, i.e. a pituitary tumour with intra-, supra-, and parasellar extension or a primary hypothalamic tumour which also may extend into the sellar cavity (Fig. 1). Figure 1 Schematic presentation of endocrine, visual and neurological symptoms as they may occur in patients with pituitary (left) and suprasellar, hypothalamic lesions (right). When there are no typical endocrine features suggesting hormonally active pituitary tumours, the differential diagnosis of the various causes of space occupying lesions in the pituitary-hypothalamic area can be difficult and often impossible without biopsy, which may be hazardous (2). SPACE OCCUPYING LESIONS OF THE PITUITARY The increasing use of
