Pituitary-Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes: Adults
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, tumours, tumour, adenomas, hypothalamic, endocrine, hypophysitis, lesions, treatment, hormone, surgery, symptoms, clinical, diagnosis


non functioning pituitary adenomas (NFPA) followed by macroprolactinomas (4). GH-, and ACTH-secreting adenomas (the latter are usually microadenomas) occur more rarely and TSH- and gonadotropin-secreting adenomas are even more uncommon. Prolactinomas, somatotropinomas and corticotropinomas all lead to characteristic clinical features. The detailed pathophysiology, clinical picture, and therapy of patients with pituitary adenomas and hormone hypersecretion are discussed elsewhere and will not be discussed in this chapter. This pertains also for tumours secreting TSH and gonadotropins in vivo. Subtypes of NFPAs All tumours in patients in which there is no clinical evidence of enhanced activity of anterior pituitary hormones, are called non-functioning pituitary adenomas (NFPAs), representing a heterogeneous group of tumours (4). A minority of the NFPAs are called null cell adenomas, as no evidence of hormone production can be found using immunostaining or measuring secretory products in the medium when the tumour has been taken into culture after surgery. Most are positive for glycoproteins by in situ hybridisation. However, 80% of the NFPAs show at least positive immunostaining for one glycoprotein hormone, of which 80 to 90% are gonadotroph adenomas. There are also clinically silent somatotroph, lactotroph, and corticotroph adenomas, although these are less common. Non-functioning adenomas which are clinically endocrine inactive may still secrete α or β subunits in vivo (5). It is of interest that even the null cell adenomas show on electron microscopy a few secretory granules with a diameter up to 250 nm. As noted above, it does seem likely that all NFPAs and null cell adenomas are therefore of gonadotrophin lineage. Molecular Pathology of NFPAs-- Pathogenesis of pituitary adenomas The pathogenesis of pituitary tumours, including NFPAs, is a multi-step process with genetic and epigenetic events conferring a growth advantage to a particular cell type which then increase by clonal expansion. These tumours are generally monoclonal, that is, they derive from a single abnormal cell, although there is some evidence to suggest that recurrent tumours may have a different clonal origin from the original tumour (5.1). There is rapidly increasing evidence for the roles of molecular abnormalities in pituitary adenoma tumorigenesis, including dysregulation of the cell cycle, signal transduction pathways, oncogenes and tumour suppressor genes. The oncogene pituitary tumour transforming gene (PTTG) encodes a multifunctional protein that is implicated in the initiation and perpetuation of pituitary adenoma growth by its regulatory functions in controlling DNA repair and mitosis and gene. Its expression is increased in the
