Pituitary-Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes: Adults
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, tumours, tumour, adenomas, hypothalamic, endocrine, hypophysitis, lesions, treatment, hormone, surgery, symptoms, clinical, diagnosis


that is implicated in the initiation and perpetuation of pituitary adenoma growth by its regulatory functions in controlling DNA repair and mitosis and gene. Its expression is increased in the majority of pituitary adenomas, and is positively correlated with tumour invasiveness and cell proliferation index Ki-67. One of the tumour suppressor genes which have been related to the pathogenesis of pituitary adenomas is GADD45γ, a P53-regulated human gene involved in growth suppression and apoptosis. While expressed in normal pituitary gland, GADD45γ is absent in the majority of pituitary adenomas (5.2) There is increasing interest in the study of microRNA (miRNAs), which dysregulation has also been revealed in pituitary adenomas. miRNAs are a class of short noncoding RNAs that post-transcriptionally regulate the target RNAs translation and degradation, and an increasing literature has demonstrated a fundamental role of miRNAs in the pathogenesis of pituitary tumorigenesis (5.3) Stimulatory factors either from the hypothalamus (releasing factors) or locally produced by the tumour cells themselves (growth factors) may act as progression factors rather than initiators of tumorigenesis. Two signalling pathways have been implicated in NFPAs tumourigenesis: PI3K/Akt/mTOR/Zac1 and EGFR/Eps8/Raf/MEK/ERK. In all pituitary tumours, Akt has been found to be overexpressed as well as overactivated, but the cause and outcome of this activation requires further investigations. Related to this pathway in NFPAs, Zac1 (a zinc finger transcription factor inducing apoptosis and cell-cycle arrest) RNA and protein levels have been found to be reduced or absent, and a significant correlation has been found between low Zac1 expression and recurrence of NFPAs. Related to EGFR/Eps8/Raf/MEK/ERK pathway, overexpression of Eps8 (Epidermal growth factor receptor substrate), and overactivation of Raf, MEK and ERK, may promote proliferation and cell survival in NFPAs, and may sensitise cells to growth factor activation independent of receptor up-regulation. (6) Clinical signs and symptoms In the absence of hormone hypersecretion, NFPAs lead only to clinical symptoms when they cause visual field defects or endocrine disturbances. In very large tumours, frontal headaches as well as ophthalmoplegia due to lateral extension of the tumour and pressure on the 3rd, 4th and 6th nerves in the wall of the cavernous sinus, are common non endocrine symptoms. Concerning anterior pituitary failure, hypogonadism is the most frequently observed clinical endocrine dysfunction in adults ( table 2 ). This hypogonadism may be due to compression of the normal pituitary or the pituitary stalk, which can cause hyperprolactinemia and contribute to the manifestation
