Pituitary-Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes: Adults
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, tumours, tumour, adenomas, hypothalamic, endocrine, hypophysitis, lesions, treatment, hormone, surgery, symptoms, clinical, diagnosis


in adults ( table 2 ). This hypogonadism may be due to compression of the normal pituitary or the pituitary stalk, which can cause hyperprolactinemia and contribute to the manifestation of hypogonadism by itself. Though menstrual disturbances in females and decline of libido and sexual potency in men are the first obvious clinical events, it is actually the impairment of growth hormone secretion which is the first anterior pituitary hormone deficiency ( table 2 ). However, in contrast to children in whom GH deficiency (GHD) leads to growth failure, the symptoms of GHD in adults are more subtle and not easily recognized by clinical observation alone (7). Often these symptoms become apparent only when these patients have received substitution therapy with growth hormone, which changes their body composition and increases their quality of life (8). Secondary hypothyroidism and adrenal failure occur only in the more advanced cases. However, the latter may become clinically important in acute stress situations like severe infection, haemorrhage and surgery. In these patients acute adrenal failure may develop though they had previously adequate adrenocortical function under basal conditions. The diagnosis of NFPAs is made using imaging techniques such as MRI or CT scan, and endocrine evaluation. The latter serves to document the degree of pituitary insufficiency, and possible hypersecretion of biologically inactive hormones such as ɑ- or β-subunits (see chapter 3.3.). In addition, ophthalmological evaluation examining visual fields and function of ocular nerves must be preformed. Table 2 Prevalence of Hypopituitarism (%) in 26 patients with large NFPAs before and 2 - 3 months after transsphenoidal surgery. View in own window Hormone function Preoperative (5) Postoperative*(%) GH-deficiency 100 85 Hypogonadism 96 65 Hypothyroidism 81 35 Adrenal insufficiency 62 46 * The improvement of hormone function after surgery was usually observed in those patients who had hyperprolactinemia and responded with a rise of the anterior pituitary hormone after administration of the respective releasing hormone. Both observations point to pituitary stalk compression as a cause of pituitary hormone deficiency (from Arafah, B. M.: J. Clin. Endoc. Metab., 62: 1173 - 9, 1986(9)). Therapy Surgical resection of the tumour is the treatment of choice (10, 11). Tumour removal leads to normalization or at least improvement of visual field defect in those cases in which chiasma compression has occurred only recently and the optic papilla has not become atrophic. Whenever anterior pituitary failure was mainly caused by compression of the
