Pituitary-Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes: Adults
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, tumours, tumour, adenomas, hypothalamic, endocrine, hypophysitis, lesions, treatment, hormone, surgery, symptoms, clinical, diagnosis


in those cases in which chiasma compression has occurred only recently and the optic papilla has not become atrophic. Whenever anterior pituitary failure was mainly caused by compression of the pituitary stalk, surgery may lead to improvement of anterior pituitary function ( table 2 ). This is not the case when anterior pituitary failure was caused by compression of the pituitary gland. In this situation endocrine dysfunction is usually irreversible even when surgery has led to resolution of the visual field defects (10). In patients in whom the tumour has grown into the cavernous sinus or in other structures of the brain and could therefore not be totally resected, postoperative radiotherapy should be considered. Radiotherapy (RDT) is not without its side effects which includes a high frequency of new hypopituitarism, if not already present. In a comparative study between 2 centres the one routinely employing post-operative radiotherapy to NFPA remnants had a much lower incidence of re-operation for recurrence (10.1). There has been concern whether pituitary RDT leads to a higher incidence of new brain tumours and visual impairment but this is minimal if at all (10.1). From epidemiological studies, patients with NFPAs who became hypopituitary do appear to have an increased mortality risk, so this may be a reason to personalise the indication for post-operative RDT. In selected patients with residual tumour laterally in the cavernous sinus away from the optic chiasma highly focused radiotherapy (gamma-knife) may be superior to conventional three field radiotherapy. The advantage of these techniques is the ability to deliver a higher radiation dose to a smaller field increasing the likelihood of tumour control and minimizing damage to residual normal pituitary tissue (12). In relation to medical treatment, several options have been evaluated. Somatostatin receptors are widely expressed in NFPAs. All subtypes have been found to be present in these tumours, but the level and pattern of expression differ between studies, supporting the theory that NFPAs are a heterogeneous group of neoplasms. The results of somatostatin analogues (SSA) are not as satisfactory as might be expected, with a limited effect on tumour shrinkage, and only some results supporting the stabilisation of tumour remnant. As the EGFR pathway has been related to pathogenesis, EGFR inhibitors have also been investigated, but no study has reported its effects on NFPA cells (13). The dopamine receptor D2 (D2R) is expressed in the majority of NFPAs, only showing very low
