Pituitary-Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes: Adults
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, tumours, tumour, adenomas, hypothalamic, endocrine, hypophysitis, lesions, treatment, hormone, surgery, symptoms, clinical, diagnosis


also been investigated, but no study has reported its effects on NFPA cells (13). The dopamine receptor D2 (D2R) is expressed in the majority of NFPAs, only showing very low expression in silent corticotrophinomas. Primary medical treatment with dopamine agonists has had disappointing outcomes, except for some scattered case reports. However, treatment in postoperative patients with residual tumour has promising results preventing residual tumour enlargement, with its effect depending on the quantity of D2Rs present (14). PITUITARY CARCINOMA Though many of the non functioning pituitary adenomas are invasive, they are not considered to be malignant as there are no metastases. However, the rare true pituitary carcinomas usually present as invasive macroadenomas in the early stage and only later develop metastases distant from the pituitary site (15). Occasionally local tumour growth may be massive, leading to destruction of the skull base and other vital centres causing early death of the patient not allowing the development of distant metastases (Fig. 2). Figure 2 MRI of a 58 years old patient with an invasive, cystic giant prolactinoma, which has destroyed the base of the scull, caused blindness, and infiltrated the lateral ventricle. He did not respond to DA-agonists and died because of the local tumour complications, though he had no distant metastases, in the CNS or elsewhere Using strict criteria for making the diagnosis of a pituitary carcinoma, i. e. presence of metastases, only about 100 cases have been reported. Particularly likely to become aggressive are the so-called ‘silent’ corticotroph adenomas which clinically present as NFPAs but immunostain positive for ACTH. These tumours may secrete precursors of ACTH in the circulation which cannot bind and activate the ACTH receptor in an effective way. This particular sub-group requires more frequent follow-up scanning than null-cell adenomas. Typically, pituitary cancers develop from invasively growing macroadenomas. They present with anterior pituitary failure or symptoms and signs of hormone hypersecretion, i.e. Cushing's syndrome, rarely acromegaly. In patients with prolactin secreting carcinomas the diagnosis of a macroprolactinoma had usually been made some years before. These tumours were often already partially dopamine agonist resistant and, in the course of the disease they lost responsiveness to dopamine agonists completely, though in some patients dopamine receptors can still be documented in vivo. Malignancies in the pituitary fossa may also be metastases from breast, bronchial, renal, or gastric cancers leading to similar symptoms to those caused by NFPAs. Although many of these patients
