Pituitary-Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes: Adults
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, tumours, tumour, adenomas, hypothalamic, endocrine, hypophysitis, lesions, treatment, hormone, surgery, symptoms, clinical, diagnosis


Malignancies in the pituitary fossa may also be metastases from breast, bronchial, renal, or gastric cancers leading to similar symptoms to those caused by NFPAs. Although many of these patients with metastases are asymptomatic and often diagnosed at autopsy, they may cause posterior pituitary failure. Though patients with pituitary carcinomas have been treated aggressively with surgery, conventional and highly focussed radiotherapy, interstitial application of radioisotopes, and medical treatment including cytotoxic chemotherapy, the prognosis of these patients is overall unfavourable (15). Only temozolomide, an alkylating agent routinely used in the treatment of gliobastoma, has been reported to be of benefit in isolated cases (15.1). The outcome of the treatment may depend on the expression of the enzyme MGMT, which interferes with the drug efficacy, but because of the inconsistency of the data, its expression should not be taken as a reason to deny treatment (15.2) BENIGN CYSTS The most common non-neoplastic cystic lesions in the sellar/suprasellar region are Rathkes's pouch or cleft cysts, mucocoeles and arachnoid cysts, which all can cause headaches, visual disturbances and pituitary failure (16). Rathke's cleft cysts derive from remnants of Rathke's pouch and are pathologically indistinguishable from mucocoeles which are expansions from the paranasal sinuses. Arachnoid cysts develop from a duplication of the arachnoid and can develop anywhere in the brain, also intrasellarly and in the suprasellar area. Arachnoid cysts represent less than 1% of all space occupying lesions in the brain and occur mainly in children, whereas Rathke's cysts occur more frequently in adult females compared to males. Typically, Rathke's cleft cysts lead to amenorrhea/galactorrhea by causing hyperprolactinemia due to impingement on the pituitary stalk and visual disturbances and headaches. Though MRI after gadolinium administration may lead to rim enhancement (Fig. 3), the diagnosis of an intrasellar Rathke's cleft cyst can not be made with absolute certainty. Thus, it is not unusual that in a patient operated for a presumed NFPA the diagnosis of Rathke's cleft cyst is made histologically after surgery. Figure 3 MRI of a 34 years old patient with a surgically confirmed Rathke's cleft cyst. The MRI above suggests a NFPA, the enhanced rim seen after gadolinium administration (below) however, raises the suspicion of a cystic intrasellar, suprasellar extending lesion. Treatment of choice is surgical total removal of the cyst (17). If this is not possible, drainage of the cyst content should be attempted. Particularly, in large mucocoeles drainage into the nasal
