Pituitary-Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes: Adults
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, tumours, tumour, adenomas, hypothalamic, endocrine, hypophysitis, lesions, treatment, hormone, surgery, symptoms, clinical, diagnosis


choice is surgical total removal of the cyst (17). If this is not possible, drainage of the cyst content should be attempted. Particularly, in large mucocoeles drainage into the nasal sinuses can be achieved with good therapeutic results. Rathke's cleft cysts are related to craniopharyngiomas and epidermoid cysts concerning their origin. The latter two are mainly located in the suprasellar space, though intrasellar manifestations are also observed. EMPTY SELLA SYNDROME Empty sella syndrome is a condition in which the sella turcica is partially or completely filled with CSF resulting in a displacement of the normal pituitary gland. Usually the sella is enlarged and the pituitary gland is compressed. MRI scan may reveal CSF within the sella due to herniation of the sellar diaphragm with evagination of the third ventricle. Empty sella syndrome is divided into primary or secondary. A primary empty sella syndrome can be due to transmission of intracranial pressure in the presence of an incompetent diaphragm and is often discovered accidentally since it is usually not associated with any clinical symptoms (18). A secondary empty sella syndrome may be caused by previous surgery or radiotherapy of a pituitary adenoma leading to shrinkage of the sella content. Auto-apoplexy of an intrasellar pituitary macroadenoma is also a possible cause of the empty sella syndrome (Fig. 4). Figure 4 Empty sella: MRI of a 40 years old female patient with acromegalic features but a GH-level below 1 μg/l and an IGF-1-level below the normal age matched range. She had hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and her enlarged sellar cavity is filled with CSF with a rim of pituitary tissue, suggesting that she had an apoplexy of a somatotroph tumour. HYPOPHYSITIS Inflammatory lesions of the pituitary gland may clinically and radiologically mimic tumours of the sellar region, causing mass effects like headaches and visual impairment and endocrine symptoms such as hyperprolactinemia, diabetes insipidus, and anterior pituitary failure. Since CT- or MRI-scans produce images which are not significantly different from those of other space occupying lesions, the diagnosis of hypophysitis is often made only after transsphenoidal surgery has been performed (19). We differentiate primary from secondary hypophysitis, the latter being composed of inflammatory lesions induced by defined pathogens or as a manifestation of distinct diseases such as sarcoidosis, Wegner's granulomatosis, etc. (see Chapter 2.5). The aetiology of primary hypophysitis is not known, though an autoimmune pathology is most likely. The most common form of primary hypophysitis
