Pituitary-Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes: Adults
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, tumours, tumour, adenomas, hypothalamic, endocrine, hypophysitis, lesions, treatment, hormone, surgery, symptoms, clinical, diagnosis


as sarcoidosis, Wegner's granulomatosis, etc. (see Chapter 2.5). The aetiology of primary hypophysitis is not known, though an autoimmune pathology is most likely. The most common form of primary hypophysitis is lymphocytic hypophysitis, which occurs more frequently in females around late pregnancy or early postpartum. It has been speculated that pituitary failure occurring postpartum, which has been attributed to Sheehan's syndrome, may in fact have been caused by lymphocytic hypophysitis (20). IgG4-related disease is a newly recognised clinical entity that was first proposed in 2001. It involves various tissues and is associated with autoimmune pancreatitis, Riedel’s thyroiditis, interstitial pneumonitis, interstitial nephritis and others. It is characterised by IgG4C plasma cell and lymphocyte infiltration and an elevated serum IgG4 concentration, and should be considered in all cases presenting with hypophysitis since it responds well to treatment and also as this is part of a systemic disease. (21) Several types of secondary hypophysitis have been described. An increasing diagnosis is lymphocytic hypophysitis secondary to ipilimumab theraphy, an immunomodulating drug used for the treatment of unresectable or metastatic malignant melanoma. As a clinical response to ipilimumab results from immunostimulation, it may generate autoimmunity as well, causing immune-related adverse events in many patients (22) More uncommon are two other forms of hypophysitis. Granulomatous hypophysitis is a rare disorder which cases are diagnosed at autopsy. In addition to the endocrine symptoms, affected patients have clinical symptoms like nausea, vomiting, and meningeal irritation (19). Xanthomatous hypophysitis presents lipid rich foamy histiocytes resembling xanthomatous inflammatory processes, which occur elsewhere in the body. Anterior pituitary failure occuring in patients with hypophysitis differs from that observed in patients with other space occupying lesions. In patients with hypophysitis secondary adrenal failure due to isolated ACTH deficiency, sometimes combined with TSH deficiency is the hallmark of anterior pituitary dysfunction, while growth hormone and gonadotropin secretion are often only slightly impaired (23). Occasionally, hypophysitis occurs in the area of the pituitary stalk and presents as infundibulitis, which invariably leads to clinically apparent diabetes insipidus (24). Though conservative management may lead to resolution of clinical symptoms caused by hypophysitis, many patients have been subjected to transsphenoidal surgery because a pituitary tumour had been suspected. Transsphenoidal surgery seems to be indicated also in those patients in whom progression of visual field defects is noted or further derangement of pituitary function is observed. In those cases in which the diagnosis has been made on account
