Pituitary-Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes: Adults
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, tumours, tumour, adenomas, hypothalamic, endocrine, hypophysitis, lesions, treatment, hormone, surgery, symptoms, clinical, diagnosis


patients in whom progression of visual field defects is noted or further derangement of pituitary function is observed. In those cases in which the diagnosis has been made on account of astute clinical observation, conservative management is justified. Spontaneous resolution of the abnormal endocrine function has been observed. In some patients glucocorticoid treatment has been shown to be effective to reduce the inflammatory process (19). However, since the development of the disease is unpredictable, patients with diagnosed or only suspected hypophysitis have to be followed up carefully. SPACE OCCUPYING LESIONS IN THE HYPOTHALAMIC REGION An enlarged pituitary fossa may also be caused by primary hypothalamic tumours extending into the pituitary fossa ( table 1 ). Hypothalamic tumours may extend into the pituitary fossa thereby leading to endocrine, visual, and neurological symptoms similar to those observed in patients with primary pituitary tumours. Furthermore, in contrast to primary pituitary tumours, hypothalamic tumours may cause posterior pituitary failure. Thus, diabetes insipidus is not seen in patients with pituitary tumours before surgery, though it is frequently observed in patients with primary suprasellar tumours in the pituitary stalk- or hypothalamic region (Fig. 1). Furthermore, hypothalamic tumours can cause disturbances of thirst control and dysregulation of osmolality, may lead to massive obesity by abnormal control of satiety, or to dysregulation of body temperature control. Extension of the hypothalamic tumour into upper parts of the brain may lead to blockage of the foramen of Monroe, internal hydrocephalus, and at the end, coma. Many hypothalamic tumours are developmental tumours, the most common is the craniopharyngioma followed by the rare germinomas, chordomas and hamartomas ( Table 1 ). Furthermore, whereas metastases of solid cancers usually develop within the pituitary, systemic malignant diseases such as Hodgkin's disease, leukaemia, histiocytosis X (Langherhan's cell histiocytosis), and Wegner's granulomatosis manifest as space occupying lesions of the basal hypothalamus. In addition, benign granulomatous or infectious diseases such as neurosarcoidosis, tuberculosis, syphilis, and cysticercosis are rare causes of a suprasellar mass. CRANIOPHARYNGIOMA Craniopharyngioma is an intracranial tumour derived from remnants of Rathke's pouch. They account for about 1% of all intracranial tumours in adults and 10% of all intracranial tumours in children (25). Though craniopharyngiomas are benign and grow rather slowly, they frequently infiltrate surrounding structures and are associated with increased mortality as well as physical and cognitive damages, and decreased quality of life, with a worse prognosis when diagnosed in children (26). According to
