Pituitary-Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes: Adults
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, tumours, tumour, adenomas, hypothalamic, endocrine, hypophysitis, lesions, treatment, hormone, surgery, symptoms, clinical, diagnosis


structures and are associated with increased mortality as well as physical and cognitive damages, and decreased quality of life, with a worse prognosis when diagnosed in children (26). According to the histology, two craniopharyngioma subtypes can be differentiated: adamantinomatous (aCPs) and papillary (pCPs), the latter only seen in adults. Mutations have been reported in both subtypes. BRAF p.V600E mutations have been found in pCPs and mutations in CTNNB1, encoding β-catenin, have been found in aCPs. These mutations were thought to be mutually exclusive and specific to tumour subtype, but recently BRAF mutations have been found in aCPs, coexisting with mutations in CTNNB1 (27) The clinical presentation of craniopharyngiomas in adults depends on the location of the tumour. Endocrine deficits are frequently present, and affect GH secretion (75%), gonadotropins (40%), ACTH (25%), and TSH (25%) (28). At the time of diagnosis, 40 to 87% of patients present with at least one hormonal deficit, and other endocrine symptoms such as neurohormonal diabetes insipidus are present preoperatively in 17 to 27% of patients (28). Patients with suprasellar invasion may also present neurological defects such as cranial nerve palsy, ataxia and convulsions. Raised intracranial pressure is mainly seen in children and has been associated with worse outcomes. Intense calcifications present in aCPs can be detected by TC: MRI before and after gadolinium is the standard imaging for detection of craniopharingyomas, as it will show the extension of the space occupying lesion. The fluid in the cysts in craniopharyngiomas has been shown to contain high concentrations of immunoreactive b-hCG, which can also be found in the CSF, bringing up the differential diagnosis of germinomas, in which measurable b-hCG levels are often found in the CSF and occasionally also in the general circulation. The treatment of craniopharyngiomas is with surgery, though particularly in children it is difficult to obtain radical removal of the tumour. After surgery, several radiation techniques have been proposed: stereotatic radiotherapy, radiosurgery and intracavitary instillation of α-emitting isotopes into cystic craniopharingyomas, causing destruction of the secretory epithelial lining, elimination of the fluid production and cyst shrinkage. The presence of BRAF mutations in the majority of pCPs offers the possibility for targeted BRAF-inhibitor therapy for patients with this tumour type. Endocrine management is not different from those of other hypothalamic pituitary deficiencies. However, non-endocrine hypothalamic disturbances may be life threatening and extremely difficult to control. Among other morbidities, it is worth mentioning that obesity
