Pituitary-Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes: Adults
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, tumours, tumour, adenomas, hypothalamic, endocrine, hypophysitis, lesions, treatment, hormone, surgery, symptoms, clinical, diagnosis


different from those of other hypothalamic pituitary deficiencies. However, non-endocrine hypothalamic disturbances may be life threatening and extremely difficult to control. Among other morbidities, it is worth mentioning that obesity is paramount, and has to its complex pathophysiology and difficult management. The damage of the hypothalamus, either preoperatively by the tumour or surgery-related, seems to lead to a disruption of satiety system and reduced energy expenditure. Data regarding bariatric surgery with different techniques are scarce and contradictory, with modest results reported in some series (29) GERM CELL TUMOURS Germ cell tumours are differentiated into germinomas, which represent 65% of intracranial germ cell neoplasms, and non-germinomatous germ cell tumours (NGGCT) such as teratomas, embryonal carcinomas and chorioncarcinomas. The incidence of these neoplasms is rather low in western countries but is much higher in Japan and China Germinomas and NGGCT differ with regard to their age of onset, location and prognosis. Germ cell tumours may secrete β-hCG and ɑ-fetoprotein which can be found in the CSF and the peripheral circulation (30). NGGCTs occur in children whereas germinomas are more frequently observed in adult males. Germ cell tumours are usually found in the region of third ventricle between the suprasellar space (mainly germinomas) and the pineal gland (mainly NGGCTs). The clinical features of these tumours, which may spread by direct invasion or via the CSF into the ventricles or suparachnoid pathways down to the spinal cord, are anterior pituitary failure, diabetes insipidus, visual disturbances, and other neurological deficits depending on the size, location and histological tumour type. The clinical presentation in younger patients includes precocious puberty which may occur due to pressure on the median eminence or as a consequence of the elevated β-hCG levels which may directly stimulate Leydig cells of the testes. The role of neurosurgery consists of biopsy and treatment of hydrocephalus if present. Radiotherapy is the treatment of choice after tumour extension has been delineated carefully by appropriate imaging techniques. Germinomas have a better prognosis than NGGCTs, where radiation therapy alone rarely is curative, and the combination with platinum-based chemotherapy has become the standard treatment in intracranial location. Chemotherapy is also used particularly in patients with wide spread disease whereas surgery is only reserved for those patients with radiotherapy resistant tumours (31). A new study has found the KIT/RAS signalling pathway mutated in more than 50% of intracranial germ cell tumours as well as novel somatic mutations in the
