Pituitary-Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes: Adults
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, tumours, tumour, adenomas, hypothalamic, endocrine, hypophysitis, lesions, treatment, hormone, surgery, symptoms, clinical, diagnosis


resistant tumours (31). A new study has found the KIT/RAS signalling pathway mutated in more than 50% of intracranial germ cell tumours as well as novel somatic mutations in the AKT/mTOR pathway, establishing a molecular foundation for understanding the biology of these tumours that suggests potentially promising therapeutic strategies focusing on the inhibition these pathways (32) Where initially elevated, tumours markers can also be used for response evaluation (30). CHORDOMA Chordomas are very rare neoplasms representing less than 0,5 % of primary intracranial tumours. It is thought that the chordoma derives from remnants of the embryonic notocord, the precursor of the intraspinal nucleus pulposus which extends up to the sphenooccipital suture (33). They can present any time in life with symptoms of headaches, diplopia and palsies of the 6th, the 9th, the 10th and the 11th nerves. In addition, when the tumour mass is located in sellar area near the clivus, endocrine symptoms with hypogonadism, hypothyroidism and adrenal failure, hyperprolactinemia and diabetes insipidus may occur. Chordomas do not only occur intracranially. If they occur in the spinal cord they are more likely to give rise to distant metastases, which occur rarely when they are located in the pituitary hypothalamic area. The diagnosis is made by MRI. A chordoma is suspected whenever the clivus is involved. However, the diagnosis of an isolated intrasellar chordoma is usually made only on account of the histology after surgery has been performed (34). Surgery is the established treatment but the site of origin of the disease often prevents complete removal. Whereas surgery can be performed in purely intrasellar chordomas and in extra cranial sacral chordoma, larger skull base chordomas are treated with debulking surgery followed by RDT or exclusive highdose RDT. Systemic therapy is needed in patients not amenable to surgery or RDT, but up to the present, only some evidence about antitumour activity has been reported for imatinib (35) and lapatinib (36), with very modest results. The complex molecular profile of chordomas could be better dealt by the combination of different drugs, and some studies with sunitib and imatinib plus mTOR inhibitors are currently ongoing Hypothalamic hamartomas (HH) are hyperplastic formations consisting of foci, of neurons and glia. HH are rare tumours which have profound influence on endocrine function since they may secret gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) or growth hormone releasing hormone (GHRH). Since they occur exclusively in children they can cause precocious puberty
