Pituitary-Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes: Adults
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, tumours, tumour, adenomas, hypothalamic, endocrine, hypophysitis, lesions, treatment, hormone, surgery, symptoms, clinical, diagnosis


profound influence on endocrine function since they may secret gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) or growth hormone releasing hormone (GHRH). Since they occur exclusively in children they can cause precocious puberty and gigantism in addition to neurological complications such as intractable seizures. Diagnosis and treatment will be discussed in the chapter Pituitary - Hypothalamic Tumour Syndromes: Children. MALIGNANT SYSTEMIC DISEASES OF THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM Hodgin's disease, lymphomas, leukaemic infiltration, Langerhan's cell histiocytosis (histiocystosis X), eosinophilic granuloma and giant cell tumours can occur in the suprasellar area. They lead to the classical triad of anterior pituitary failure, diabetes insipidus and visual disturbances, which can be accompanied with other neurological deficits and symptoms due to the original disease (37, 38, 39, 40). Treatment depends on the diagnosis, the extent of endocrine dysfunction, the space occupying lesion and staging of the disease. The reversibility of endocrine dysfunctions, i. e. hyperprolactinemia or diabetes insipidus can be used as an indicator for the effectiveness of the respective therapy. NEUROSARCOIDOSIS AND OTHER GRANULOMATOUS DISEASES Sarcoidosis of the nervous system can lead to peripheral and central manifestations (37, 39). When granulomatous disease in the CNS leads to local infiltration of brain substance and impedes the flow of CSF giving rise to increased intracranial pressure, diabetes insipidus, hyperprolactinemia and anterior pituitary failure as well as other hypothalamic disturbances like somnolence, disturbance of water balance, food intake, and temperature regulation are observed (41). Hypothalamic involvement is the most common feature of neurosarcoidosis though other neurological symptoms like seizures and psychiatric disturbances are also encountered. The diagnosis can not be made by MRI or CT alone. Determination of angiotensin converting enzyme is usual not helpful though analysis of the CSF may reveal an elevated protein content or an increase of CSF lymphocytes. Lymph node enlargement and pulmonary sarcoid disease are seldom present. Often the diagnosis is made only after a pituitary biopsy reveals the classical granulomas. Treatment of choice is prednisone (1,5 mg/kg body weight) which usually rapidly normalizes endocrine disturbances. However, other diseases should be excluded, before steroid treatment is considered (39). Other rare differential diagnoses include hypophysitis (see above), infectious diseases at the base of the skull like tuberculosis, syphilis, fungal infections, and cysticercosis, and Wegner's granulomatosis which may all lead to endocrine and ophthalmological symptoms. In patients with HIV, manifestations of opportunistic infections may occur in the pituitary-hypothalamic area (42). CSF-examination may be helpful in making the
