Pituitary-Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes: Adults
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, tumours, tumour, adenomas, hypothalamic, endocrine, hypophysitis, lesions, treatment, hormone, surgery, symptoms, clinical, diagnosis


may all lead to endocrine and ophthalmological symptoms. In patients with HIV, manifestations of opportunistic infections may occur in the pituitary-hypothalamic area (42). CSF-examination may be helpful in making the differential diagnosis. EVALUATION OF PATIENTS WITH PITUITARY/ HYPOTHALAMIC SPACE OCCUPYING LESIONS There are 3 reasons why patients need special investigation of their pituitary/hypothalamic axis (Fig. 5). Disturbance of pituitary hormone secretion. Neurologic symptoms, such as headache or visual field defect Incidental finding of a sellar or suprasellar space occupying lesion by MRI or CT Figure 5 Evaluation and treatment of pituitary incidentaloma (43) Insufficiency of GH secretion followed by secondary hypogonadism, followed by secondary thyroid and adrenal failure is the same regardless whether patients suffer from a primary pituitary or primary hypothalamic lesion. Typical for hypothalamic involvement however is diabetes insipidus and behavioural symptoms such as increased appetite with pathological weight gain, somnolence, disturbances of temperature regulation etc. Furthermore, the clinical manifestation of hypopituitarism depends not only on the type and the degree of hormone deficiency but whether it is an acute or chronic deficiency. Patients with chronic hypopituitarism are often hypogonadal and have partial secondary hypothyroidism and hypoadrenalism, whereas in acute pituitary failure, such as that caused by tumour apoplexy the clinical picture is dominated by the consequence of acute cortisol deficiency with severe headaches, hypotension, prostration and coma. The diagnostic work-up of pituitary or hypothalamic tumour patients should therefore answer the following questions ( Figure 5 ): What is the nature of the pituitary or hypothalamic space-occupying lesion? Is there hormone hypersecretion? Is there impairment of pituitary function? Is there involvement of the optic pathways with visual field defects or other cranial nerve abnormalities? Imaging studies The MRI with gadolinium is the imaging technique of choice. Gadolinium does not pass the intact blood-brain barrier, so enhances visualisation of normal tissues such us the pituitary which lack it. Adenomas, as well as other sellar masses such us craniopharyngiomas, usually take up gadolinium to a lesser degree than the normal pituitary. Compared to CT, MRI is clearly superior in showing the extension to neural tissue. Unlike CT however, MRI will not show the calcification associated with craniopharyngioma. Ophthalmology Since changes in vision are often early signs of tumour progression, ophthalmological investigations are useful in the primary diagnosis as well as during follow up. All patients presenting with a pituitary mass abutting the optic nerves or chiasm on MRI should undergo
