Pituitary-Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes: Adults
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, tumours, tumour, adenomas, hypothalamic, endocrine, hypophysitis, lesions, treatment, hormone, surgery, symptoms, clinical, diagnosis


investigations are useful in the primary diagnosis as well as during follow up. All patients presenting with a pituitary mass abutting the optic nerves or chiasm on MRI should undergo a formal visual field examination, computerised perimetry being a reliable tool. Endocrine evaluation Full assessment of pituitary function is needed in all patients with a pituitary hypothalamic tumour, evaluating hormone hypersecretion and hypopituitarism. The latter can often not be preformed by measuring basal hormones only, thus stimulation tests may be required (44). With serum PRL levels over 5000 mU/L, the diagnosis is more likely to a prolactinoma. Moderately elevated serum PRL in the presence of a large space occupying lesion is more often due to stalk compression, but ideally the laboratory should measure levels in diluted serum to ensure that these are not falsely lowered by “hook effect”. If a macroprolactinoma is mistakenly diagnosed as a NFPA, it would have serious therapeutic consequences. In pituitary incidentalomas, IGF-1 should also be measured, with no clear recommendations about screening for glucocorticoid excess in asymptomatic patients. Related to hormone deficiency, basal cortisol, IGF-1, free T4 and TSH, gonadotrophin, oestradiol and testosterone should be measured, and if baseline test suggest a hypopituitarism, further stimulation test will be performed to evaluated IGF-1 or pituitary-adrenal axis. The insulin stress test (IST), which stimulates ACTH, GH, and PRL secretion, is still the ‘gold standard’ for testing anterior pituitary function (45). However, this test should not usually be performed in patients more than 70 years of age, or those with coronary disease, uncontrolled hypertension or epilepsy, because of the high risk of complications. The short synacthen test with 250 mcg ACTH 1-24 is used in many centres as an alternative to the IST for assessment of the hypothalamic – pituitary – adrenal axis although it cannot assess growth hormone reserve, for which other tests are required. The rationale for this test is that an ACTH deficiency would lead to adrenal atrophy, since they have not been stimulated for a prolonged period. As a result of this atrophy, the adrenals will not be able to secrete cortisol normally in response to a bolus of ACTH. There is still debate about the accuracy of this test, its sensitivity and positive and negative predictive value, and it should not be used soon after surgery. Posterior pituitary function is evaluated by measuring daily urine output and serum and urine osmolality, and is
