Pituitary-Hypothalamic Tumor Syndromes: Adults
KEYWORDS: pituitary, patients, tumours, tumour, adenomas, hypothalamic, endocrine, hypophysitis, lesions, treatment, hormone, surgery, symptoms, clinical, diagnosis


and negative predictive value, and it should not be used soon after surgery. Posterior pituitary function is evaluated by measuring daily urine output and serum and urine osmolality, and is tested formally by the water deprivation/desmopressin test. Often partial diabetes insipidus becomes manifest only after appropriate hydrocortisone substitution therapy in ACTH deficient patients. Supplementary test TRH-test should not be done in a patient with a macroadenoma, because of serious side effects which have been reported, i. e. pituitary apoplexy, sudden visual loss, etc. (46). β-hCG and ɑ-fetoprotein in the peripheral circulation or the CSF may help to identify a suprasellar mass as a germ cell tumour. Table 6 Triad of symptoms in hypothalamic tumour patients 1. Hyperprolactinaemic anterior pituitary failure (at least hypogonadism) 2. Diabetes insipidus 3. Visual disturbances. Therapy and follow-up Pituitary hypothalamic space occupying lesions need to be treated, either by surgery, radiotherapy or both. In special situations medical therapy may be indicated. A more complex problem is presented in pituitary incidentalomas. Clinical judgement is needed not only in determining the extent of evaluation but also in respect to therapy and follow-up. In the absence of visual field abnormalities and endocrine dysfunction, an expectant policy of no intervention and periodic follow-up is indicated. In the case of macroadenomas, a new MRI should be performed 6 months after the initial scan. In case of microadenomas, 12 months later seems to be more adequate. If no change, then MRI should be repeated every year during the next 3 years, and gradually less frequently thereafter. (43) Limited information suggests that this will occur rarely in patients with microadenomas but in up to 25% of larger tumours (1). Timing of surgical intervention depends on several factors including patient’s general medical fitness, development of headache or visual symptoms, or hypopituitarism. Since patients with pituitary or hypothalamic tumours are rarely cured completely or at least harbour one or several hormonal deficits needing substitution therapy, lifelong follow-up of these patients is warranted. REFERENCES Feldkamp, J., Santen, R., Harms, E., Aulich, A., Mödder, U., Scherbaum, W. A. (1999): Incidentally discovered pituitary lesions: high frequency of macroadenomas and hormone-secreting adenomas - results of a prospective study. Clinical Endocrinology, 51: 109 - 113. Thapar, K., Kovacs, K., Scheithauer, B. W., Lloyd, R. V. (eds): Diagnosis and management of pituitary tumors. Humana Press, Totowa; USA,, 2001. Kovacs, K. Scheithauer, B. W., Horvath, G., Lloyd, R. V. (1996): The World
