Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: scoring, clinical, patients, pharyngitis, gas, throat, studies, study, streptococcal, mcisaac, testing, children, use, diagnosis, sore


GAS? Recommendation: In children and adults with sore throat, we suggest using a clinical scoring system to determine who should be tested for GAS (conditional recommendation, very low cer- tainty of evidence). Received 11 November 2025; accepted 15 November 2025; published online 4 December aJ. A. L., M. E.W., and M. R. W. contributed equally to the work. Remarks: bD. K. and M. B. B. contributed equally to the work. 1. Clinical scoring systems are most helpful in identifying pa- Correspondence: M. B. Barshak, Infectious Diseases Division, Massachusetts General Clinical Infectious Diseases® ther evaluation by diagnostic testing is unlikely to be helpful. © The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Infectious Diseases 2. High-risk individuals should be strongly considered for test- for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our ing even if their clinical scores are low. Examples of high-risk RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information individuals include those presenting with sore throat who please contact . have had household exposure to GAS (eg, living or sleeping IDSA 2025 Clinical Practice Guideline Update on GAS Pharyngitis • CID • 1 Downloaded from by guest on May in the same indoor shared space as a person diagnosed with METHODS GAS infection), a history of a previous rheumatic fever diag- The panel’s recommendation is based upon evidence derived nosis, or symptoms or signs suggestive of complicated local or from a systematic review and adheres to a standardized method- systemic GAS infection (eg, peritonsillar or retropharyngeal ology for rating the certainty of evidence and strength of abscess, scarlet fever, and/or toxic shock syndrome). recommendation according to the GRADE (Grading of 3. Given the lack of evidence favoring any particular scoring Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation) approach (Supplementary Figure 1) . The recommendation systems that do not include laboratory test(s). has been endorsed by the American Society for Microbiology 4. The recommendation to use a scoring system does not apply and the Society of Infectious Diseases Pharmacists. to children <3 years of age as GAS infection in this age A strong recommendation means most informed people group may not present with typical clinical features repre- would choose the recommended course of action and only a sented in these scoring systems . small proportion would not. A conditional recommendation means the majority of informed people
