Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: scoring, clinical, patients, pharyngitis, gas, throat, studies, study, streptococcal, mcisaac, testing, children, use, diagnosis, sore


repre- would choose the recommended course of action and only a sented in these scoring systems . small proportion would not. A conditional recommendation means the majority of informed people would choose the sug- gested course of action, but many would not. A comprehensive literature search, with no start date and A strong recommendation means most informed people conducted through March 2025, was performed as part of would choose the recommended course of action and only a a systematic review using the PICO (Patient/Population, small proportion would not. Intervention, Comparison, Outcome) framework. Key eligibil- A conditional recommendation means the majority of in- ity criteria at both the overall topic (diagnosis of GAS pharyn- but many would not. levels guided the search and selection of studies for inclusion. For this question, we sought randomized and nonrandomized Group A Streptococcus (Streptococcus pyogenes or GAS) is the studies published in English that compared use of a clinical most common bacterial cause of acute pharyngitis . scoring system to clinician judgment alone to determine which Diagnosis of GAS pharyngitis and initiation of appropriate an- patients with sore throat should be tested for GAS. Studies fo- tibiotic therapy is important for the prevention of acute rheu- cusing on the use of scoring systems to guide antibiotic pre- matic fever; for the prevention of suppurative complications scriptions rather than testing, those not comparing against (eg, peritonsillar abscess, cervical lymphadenitis, mastoiditis, reference standards of throat culture or RADT, and those or more invasive disease); to minimize the risk of further that did not report raw data needed to calculate sensitivities GAS transmission; and to enable a quicker return to school, and specificities were excluded. For studies that reported non- work, and usual activities . Antibiotic treatment of acute standard definitions of sensitivity and specificity, we recalculat- pharyngitis is primarily indicated for GAS infection, as treat- ed those outcomes using original data and standard ment is of no proven benefit for most other pathogens (besides methodologies to ensure consistent and accurate reporting the rare cases of pharyngitis due to Corynebacterium diphther- across studies. Refer to the full list of eligibility criteria in the iae and Neisseria gonorrhoeae). Accurate diagnosis of GAS Supplementary Material. pharyngitis is therefore important to avoid unnecessary antibi- A critical appraisal of the evidence according to the GRADE otic exposure and the associated expense and potential adverse approach, along with an assessment of the benefits
