Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: scoring, clinical, patients, pharyngitis, gas, throat, studies, study, streptococcal, mcisaac, testing, children, use, diagnosis, sore


avoid unnecessary antibi- A critical appraisal of the evidence according to the GRADE otic exposure and the associated expense and potential adverse approach, along with an assessment of the benefits and harms effects of such therapy [4–6]. The diagnosis of GAS pharyngitis of care options, informed the recommendation(s) . based on clinical judgment alone is unreliable [7–9]. It has been Details of the systematic review and guideline development suggested that implementation of a standardized scoring sys- processes are available in the Supplementary Material. tem based on specified criteria (eg, presence of fever, tonsillar exudate, tender and enlarged anterior cervical lymph nodes, and the absence of cough) could help to predict the likelihood SUMMARY OF EVIDENCE of a positive throat culture for GAS among children aged ≥3 years and adults presenting with sore throat [1, 10–16]. The Six observational studies were identified that met the inclusion goal of this systematic review is to determine whether a clinical criteria and assessed the accuracy of clinical scoring systems in scoring system should be used to decide which patients should determining who should be tested for GAS pharyngitis [11–16]. undergo laboratory testing (eg, rapid antigen detection test All studies used throat culture as the reference standard. The [RADT], nucleic acid amplification test [NAAT], and/or throat scoring systems evaluated include those described by Breese, culture) to evaluate for GAS infection. Centor, Fujikawa, McIsaac, and Attia . One The primary audience for this recommendation is clinicians study reported data for combined pediatric and adult pop- evaluating and treating patients with suspected GAS pharyngitis. ulations, as well as separately for each group. Four studies [11, 2 • CID • Linder et al Downloaded from by guest on May 13, 14, 16] focused exclusively on children and one study The evidence supporting this recommendation is of very low focused on adults. certainty due to risk of bias (eg, deriving and validating scoring tools on the same population, missing data, and lack of blinding Children according to QUADAS-C assessment ), inconsistency Three studies reported data on sensitivity and specificity out- in scoring tools used across studies, and imprecision due to comes among children . The scoring tools assessed wide CIs. Refer to the Supplementary Materialsfor exact judg- in these studies include Breese, McIsaac, and Attia . ments affecting certainty of evidence for each outcome. For the Attia 2001 study , we excluded data from the inter- mediate category due
