Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: scoring, clinical, patients, pharyngitis, gas, throat, studies, study, streptococcal, mcisaac, testing, children, use, diagnosis, sore


studies include Breese, McIsaac, and Attia . ments affecting certainty of evidence for each outcome. For the Attia 2001 study , we excluded data from the inter- mediate category due to lack of raw data to calculate sensitivity and specificity. Only definitive diagnosis from scores 0 and ≥4 categories were included in the forest plots. When compared to RATIONALE FOR RECOMMENDATION clinician judgment alone without using a scoring system, the Existing studies directly comparing the outcome of using a clin- scoring systems were found to have slightly better sensitivity ical scoring system versus usual clinical practice without a scor- (range, 0.83–0.97 vs 0.71–0.87) and comparable specificity ing system have limitations: small sample size, lack of (range, 0.60–0.72 vs 0.60–0.92). uniformity in outcome measures, incomplete data, and not Funamura et al did not report sensitivity and specificity; contemporary. Evidence from studies in children and adults however, they found no significant difference between use of suggest diagnostic accuracy is comparable or slightly higher a scoring system and standard practice for correct diagnosis with the use of a scoring system as compared to clinician judg- (70% vs 69%), false positive rate (20% vs 25%), positive predic- ment alone. In addition, the derivation and validation studies of tive value (40% vs 44%), or negative predictive value (80% vs the Centor and McIsaac criteria, and particu- 75%) . Similarly, Fujikawa et al found no significant differ- larly the large validation study of both systems by Fine et al ence in tentative diagnosis with use of a scoring system (54%– , provide robust estimates of the probability of a positive 93%) versus no scoring system (53.5%) . rapid test or throat culture for GAS associated with all possible scores of the Centor or McIsaac scoring systems (see Table 2 Adults below, reproduced from Fine et al ). These 2 scoring sys- nician judgment alone in adults with sore throat. The first study between them being that McIsaac adds an age criterion. As reported the probability of a positive throat culture for the 2 systems have similar performance characteristics [25, sillar exudates, swollen tender anterior cervical nodes, oral tem- test, the panel suggests that either one would be an appropriate with 1 criterion, 15% with 2 criteria, 32% with 3 criteria, and (Fever, Purulence, Attended rapidly [≤3 days], severely 55.7% with 4 criteria. The positive predictive value of a resi- Inflamed tonsils, and No cough or coryza),
