Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: scoring, clinical, patients, pharyngitis, gas, throat, studies, study, streptococcal, mcisaac, testing, children, use, diagnosis, sore


these established scoring sys- sociated criteria that clinicians could consider using to help IDSA 2025 Clinical Practice Guideline Update on GAS Pharyngitis • CID • 5 Downloaded from by guest on May RESEARCH NEEDS determination regarding their application to be made by the cli- nician in the light of each patient’s individual circumstances. A more confident assessment of the value of a clinical scoring While the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) makes system will depend on the results of additional research. The every effort to present accurate, complete, and reliable informa- field would benefit from contemporary, well-designed, ade- tion, these guidelines are presented “as is” without any warran- quately powered, prospective, randomized controlled trials ty, either express or implied. IDSA (and its officers, directors, comparing the use of a standardized clinical scoring system members, employees, and agents) assume no responsibility with clinician judgment alone in patients with sore throat. In for any loss, damage, or claim with respect to any liabilities, in- cluding direct, special, indirect, or consequential damages, in- systems remains to be evaluated. curred in connection with these guidelines or reliance on the information presented. The findings and conclusions in this re- Supplementary Data port are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily represent Supplementary materials are available at Clinical Infectious Diseasesonline. Consisting of data provided by the authors to benefit the reader, the posted the official position of the Centers for Disease Control and materials are not copyedited and are the sole responsibility of the authors, Prevention (CDC). so questions or comments should be addressed to the corresponding Copyright. The guidelines represent the proprietary and author. copyrighted property of IDSA. All rights reserved. No part of these guidelines may be reproduced, distributed, or transmitted Notes in any form or by any means, including photocopying, record- Author contributions. M. B. B. is the chair of the GAS phar- ing, or other electronic or mechanical methods, without the leads for the questions addressed in this manuscript. The re- physicians and healthcare providers solely to copy and use maining panelists assisted with conception and design of the the guidelines in their professional practices and clinical analysis, interpretation of data, drafting and revising the rec- decision-making. No license or permission is granted to any ommendations and manuscript, and final approval of the rec- person or entity, and prior written authorization by IDSA is re- ommendations and manuscript to be
