Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: scoring, clinical, patients, pharyngitis, gas, throat, studies, study, streptococcal, mcisaac, testing, children, use, diagnosis, sore


permission is granted to any ommendations and manuscript, and final approval of the rec- person or entity, and prior written authorization by IDSA is re- ommendations and manuscript to be published. D. K., quired to sell, distribute, or modify the guidelines, or to make methodologist, was responsible for general project manage- derivative works of or incorporate the guidelines into any prod- according to the GRADE process. ware or any other software product. Except for the permission Acknowledgments. First, we acknowledge the previous pan- granted above, any person or entity desiring to use the guide- el, under the leadership of Stanford Shulman, for their work on lines in any way must contact IDSA for approval in accordance the previous iteration of this larger guideline. The panel ac- with the terms and conditions of third-party use, in particular knowledge the contributions of Elizabeth Kiscaden and Mary any use of the guidelines in any software product. Beth McAteer, medical librarians, for the creation and execu- Financial support. This work was supported by the tion of question-specific literature searches. Hannah Rehm Infectious Diseases Society of America. provided project coordination. The panel also acknowledge Potential conflicts of interest. Evaluation of relationships as the following selected external reviewers for their thoughtful potential conflicts of interest is determined by a review process. review of the draft manuscript: Drs. Paul Lantos, Mark The assessment of disclosed relationships for possible conflicts of Pasternack, and Sarah Parker. More detailed information on interest is based on the relative weight of the financial relation- the analysis and development of recommendations is available ship (ie, monetary amount) and the relevance of the relationship in the Supplementary Appendix. (ie, the degree to which an association might reasonably be inter- Disclaimer. It is important to recognize that guidelines can- preted by an independent observer as related to the topic or rec- not always account for individual variation among patients. ommendation of consideration). The following panelists have They are assessments of current scientific and clinical informa- reported relationships unrelated to the topic of Streptococcus tion provided as an educational service; are not continually up- with indicated companies. M. R. W. served as a scientific advisor dated and may not reflect the most recent evidence (new for the Leduq Foundation; received research funding from the evidence may emerge between the time information is drafted National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID); and when it is published
