Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: scoring, clinical, patients, pharyngitis, gas, throat, studies, study, streptococcal, mcisaac, testing, children, use, diagnosis, sore


the Leduq Foundation; received research funding from the evidence may emerge between the time information is drafted National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID); and when it is published or read); should not be considered in- received author compensation from McGraw-Hill; received au- clusive of all proper methods of care, or as a statement of the thor and editor compensation from UpToDate; and receives re- standard of care; do not mandate any course of medical care; search funding from the National Institutes of Health (NIH). and are not intended to supplant clinician judgment with re- M. E. W. served as an advisor for, received honoraria from, spect to particular patients or situations. Whether to follow and served on the promotional (non–continuing medical educa- guidelines and to what extent is voluntary, with the ultimate tion) speakers bureau for BioFire Diagnostics; receives research 6 • CID • Linder et al Downloaded from by guest on May funding from NIH/NIAID; and serves as a Fellowship Awards Association. D. J. S. receives research funding from the Committee member for the Pediatric Infectious Diseases Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute. M. B. B. owned Society (PIDS). J. A. L. owns stock holding/investment with stocks with Viatris and Pfizer (concluded prior to joining Amgen, Biogen, and Eli Lilly; received funding from the NIH the panel), owns stocks with Boston Scientific and Danaher; and the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality; and serves receives royalty from UpToDate; and served as a board mem- as a Fellowship Awards Committee member for PIDS. ber for the Massachusetts Infectious Diseases society. The fol- D. M. C. served as a honoraria for the American Academy of lowing panelist had an advisory role related to the topic of Family Physicians; receives research funding from the Florida Streptococcus: J. D. B. served on the research advisory panel Perinatal Quality Collaborative; served as a board member, fi- for bioMérieux (concluded). All other authors report no po- nance committee member, Congress of Delegates, and Vice tential conflicts. President for the Florida Academy of Family Physicians; serves All authors have submitted the ICMJE Form for Disclosure as an advisory board member for Winston YMCA; serves as a of Potential Conflicts of Interest. Conflicts that the editors con- member of the Commission of Health of the Public and sider relevant to the content of the manuscript have been Science for the American Academy of Family Physicians; and disclosed.
