HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, picu, patients, sequencing, genetic, study, patient, clinical, rces, exome, manuscript author, diagnosis, exome sequencing


HHS Public Access Author manuscript Pediatr Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 October 23. Published in final edited form as: Pediatr Res. 2020 November ; 88(5): 761–768. doi:. Rapid Exome Sequencing in PICU Patients with New Onset Metabolic or Neurological Disorders Abigail S. Carey1,3,5, John P. Schacht2,3,5, Christine Umandap2,3,5, David Fasel4,5, Chunhua Weng4,5, Joshua Cappell1,3,5, Wendy K. Chung2,3,5, Steven G. Kernie1,3,5 1Division of Pediatric Critical Care Medicine, 2Division of Molecular Genetics 3Department of Pediatrics, 4Department of Biomedical Informatics, Stanley Children’s Hospital Abstract Background: Genomic assessment previously took months to result and was unable to impact clinical care in the pediatric intensive care unit (PICU). The advent of rapid exome sequencing potentially changes this. We investigated the impact of rapid exome sequencing in a pilot study on pediatric patients admitted to a single PICU with new onset metabolic/neurologic disease. Methods: Rapid exome sequencing (7 days to verbal result) was performed on (n=10) PICU patients age <6 years admitted with new onset metabolic/neurologic disease. The primary outcome of interest was inpatient LOS, which served as a proxy for inpatient cost. Results: A significant reduction in median LOS was identified when comparing PICU patients who underwent rapid exome sequencing to historical controls. From those patients who underwent rapid sequencing, 5 had likely pathogenic variants. In 3 cases with diagnostic genetic results, there was a modification to clinical care attributable to information provided by exome sequencing. Users may view, print, copy, and download text and data-mine the content in such documents, for the purposes of academic research, subject always to the full Conditions of use: 10-23, New York, New York 10032, , 212-305-8458 (phone), 212-342-2293 (fax). Contributors’ Statement Drs Carey, Chung and Kernie conceptualized and designed the study, drafted the initial manuscript, and reviewed and revised the manuscript. Drs Chung and Kernie supervised all aspects of data collection, analysis, and manuscript production. Drs Schacht, Umandap and Cappell were responsible for consenting eligible families for genetic testing and for returning genetic results to enrolled families when available. Additionally, they reviewed and revised the manuscript. Dr Weng and Mr. Fasel were responsible for the data analysis and bioinformatics work that was conducted to abstract information regarding the historical control populations. Additionally, they reviewed and revised the manuscript. All authors approved the final manuscript as submitted and agree to be accountable for all aspects of the work. Conflict of Interest: All authors have indicated they have
