HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, picu, patients, sequencing, genetic, study, patient, clinical, rces, exome, manuscript author, diagnosis, exome sequencing


the manuscript. All authors approved the final manuscript as submitted and agree to be accountable for all aspects of the work. Conflict of Interest: All authors have indicated they have no potential conflicts of interest to disclose. Category of Study: Clinical Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Conclusions: This pilot study demonstrates that rapid exome sequencing is feasible to do in the PICU, that genetic results can be returned quickly enough to impact critical care decision-making and management. In a select population of PICU patients, this technology may contribute to a decrease in hospital length of stay. Introduction: management relies on quickly obtaining relevant diagnostic information and rapidly delivering a tailored clinical response. Multiple studies have examined how genomic sequencing in critically ill infants may improve the diagnostic yield in caring for these patients. The majority of these investigations have been conducted in neonatal intensive care units (NICUs), but a growing number are now occurring in Pediatric Intensive Care Units (PICUs) as well [1–5]. The clinical value of rapid sequencing was first demonstrated by Saunders et al. in 2012 in 2 neonates who received a genetic diagnosis by undergoing whole genome sequencing within 50 hours . These findings have been confirmed by others in critically ill infants and children, providing a diagnostic yield that ranges from 40% to 57% when genomic sequencing is conducted in a carefully selected pediatric patient population . Apart from the cost of genomic sequencing, which continues to decrease as this technology expedited manner that remains its greatest barrier to clinical application in intensive care units. One study reported that genomic results were clinically useful in 32.6% of diagnosed patients when clinical exome sequencing (CES) was provided with routine turnaround times (median 136 days), but clinically useful in 65–71% of patients diagnosed via rapid genome sequencing (rGS) and rapid clinical exome sequencing (rCES) when results were provided with a median turnaround time of 12–23 days . Taken together, these results further highlight that it is the expedited return of results that has greater impact on the clinical utility of genetic testing. health care costs [8–10]. A recent study of the application of rCES in pediatric acute illness demonstrated that expedited genetic sequencing is not only feasible in an ICU setting, but also found the technology to be cost-effective and of high diagnostic and clinical utility . Importantly, however, prior studies have failed to link
