HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, picu, patients, sequencing, genetic, study, patient, clinical, rces, exome, manuscript author, diagnosis, exome sequencing


only feasible in an ICU setting, but also found the technology to be cost-effective and of high diagnostic and clinical utility . Importantly, however, prior studies have failed to link healthcare cost-savings to decreased hospital length of stay (LOS) in patients undergoing expedited genomic sequencing. To that end, we aimed to investigate the impact of rCES on pediatric patients <6 years old admitted to our PICU with new onset metabolic/neurologic disease in a pilot study. We focused on this narrow subset of PICU patients based on previous observational data from our group suggesting that they might benefit most from a rapid diagnostic approach. Our overarching goal was to better understand the role of rCES in our PICU. We were cost, was impacted by implementation of this technology in our narrowly selected cohort of Pediatr Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 October 23. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript select group both by providing a diagnosis earlier in the patient’s hospitalization, and completing the standard work-up for these specific diagnoses within a rapid timeframe. This hypothesis was based on previous observational data from our PICU whereby patients meeting these enrollment criteria had long and complicated hospital courses. Patients and Methods: Recruitment and consent rCES was completed prospectively on 10 unrelated PICU patients and their biologic parents. Eligibility criteria were: (1) < 6 years old, (2) admission with a predetermined ICD-10 study inclusion diagnosis code pertaining to new onset metabolic/neurologic disease (Appendix A), (3) anticipated inpatient hospitalization for at least 3 days. Exclusion criteria were: known genetic diagnosis to explain the patient’s clinical phenotype (Figure 1). These eligibility criteria were based on pilot data from patients who received whole exome sequencing in a 12-month period in 2015 and 2016. From 26 patients who had WES performed during this time, 9 of them fulfilled the criteria subsequently established, and all of them had complicated hospital courses. Six of the nine were ultimately found to have a likely disease-causing mutation found only after whole exome sequencing. Notably, patients did not need to have a “suspected” genetic diagnosis or have previously been seen by a geneticist in order to be eligible for enrollment. This study was approved by the Columbia University IRB. Participants were recruited between October 2017 and December 2018. Pretest genetic education and counseling was provided for all eligible children by the inpatient pediatric clinical genetics team of medical geneticists
