HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, picu, patients, sequencing, genetic, study, patient, clinical, rces, exome, manuscript author, diagnosis, exome sequencing


Participants were recruited between October 2017 and December 2018. Pretest genetic education and counseling was provided for all eligible children by the inpatient pediatric clinical genetics team of medical geneticists at NewYork-Presbyterian Morgan Stanley Children’s Hospital. Parents provided written consent for rCES with the option of receiving secondary medically actionable were abstracted from the electronic medical record. Identification of expedited exome sequencing cohort Following our enrollment algorithm, 1358 unique patients were admitted to the medical- surgical PICU at our institution from Oct 2017-Dec 2018 and screened for the rCES study (Figure 2). 1194 patients did not meet the study criteria on initial screen. The most common reason for exclusion was not possessing an ICD-10 admitting diagnosis meeting the inclusion criteria. Of note, many patients were excluded based upon more than one exclusion criteria. We then manually reviewed the electronic medical record for the remaining 164 patients to determine eligibility. The most common reason for exclusion at this step was that the ICD-10 admitting diagnosis did not accurately reflect the patient’s clinical phenotype— e.g. a patient admitted with diabetic ketoacidosis who had metabolic acidosis listed as their admitting diagnosis. We approached 13 eligible families, and three families declined who did not want genetic testing on their children. For the parents who consented to participate rCES, 8 patients were assessed as trios (patient and biological mother and father) and two patients were assessed as duos (patient and biological mother only). The study was discontinued following enrollment of the tenth patient as funding for this pilot study was available for the first 10 patients who met criteria and consented to enrollment. Pediatr Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 October 23. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Identification of historical controls All PICU patients admitted to the medical/surgical PICU from 2010–2015 were considered for inclusion as historical controls (n=6967). Historical controls were identified via application of identical study inclusion criteria; historical controls were < 6 years old, admitted with a predefined, corresponding ICD-9 study inclusion code, and admitted to the PICU for at least 72 hours (Figure 3). The most common reason for exclusion from the control cohort was the ICD-9 code. As with the study participants, historical controls were not required to have a suspected genetic diagnosis or been previously seen by a geneticist. Manually review of the remaining 1143 patient charts identified 101 PICU historical controls who met study
