HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, picu, patients, sequencing, genetic, study, patient, clinical, rces, exome, manuscript author, diagnosis, exome sequencing


required to have a suspected genetic diagnosis or been previously seen by a geneticist. Manually review of the remaining 1143 patient charts identified 101 PICU historical controls who met study criteria. This represents 0.88% of all screened PICU admissions from 2010–2015 which is similar to the 0.96% of PICU admissions who met enrollment criteria during the study period. Comparison of rCES cohort and historical controls rCES cohort and historical controls were compared according to gender, race and ethnicity, age, primary admitting diagnosis and median Pediatric Index of Mortality 3 (PIM3) risk of mortality score. Comparisons using Fisher exact test or 2-Tailed t-test were performed, when applicable. PIM3 risk of mortality is a prediction model built using logistic regression that assesses the risk of mortality among children admitted to an ICU . The model accounts for both binary and continuous factors related to a patient’s overall risk of mortality. Exome sequence analysis A minimum of 3mL of fresh blood in EDTA was obtained from enrolled PICU patients and exonic regions and flanking splice junctions of the genome were captured using a proprietary capture kit developed by GeneDx and sequenced by massively parallel (NextGen) sequencing on an Illumina system with 100bp or greater paired-end reads. Reads were aligned to human genome build GRCh37/UCSC hg19, and analyzed using a custom- developed analysis tool (Xome Analyzer). Capillary sequencing was used to confirm all potentially pathogenic variants identified in the proband and parents. Sequence and copy number alterations were reported according to the Human Genome Variation Society (HGVS) and International System for Human Cytogenetic Nomenclature (ISCN) guidelines, respectively . within 7 days after sample submission if any pathogenic variants were identified that were consistent with the patient’s clinical phenotype. Within 14 days following sample submission, a written report was provided detailing all pathogenic variants identified. Additionally, any variants of uncertain significance were also disclosed at this time. The reporting of laboratory findings was performed as previously described . Genetic findings were classified as molecularly diagnosed when pathogenic or likely pathogenic variant(s) were detected in a disease gene that was associated with the phenotype in the Pediatr Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 October 23. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript reviewed by a multidisciplinary group of physicians including board-certified clinical and understanding of the molecular diagnosis. Results: Demographic and clinical characteristics In considering the demographic and clinical characteristics for the 10 study
