HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, picu, patients, sequencing, genetic, study, patient, clinical, rces, exome, manuscript author, diagnosis, exome sequencing


a multidisciplinary group of physicians including board-certified clinical and understanding of the molecular diagnosis. Results: Demographic and clinical characteristics In considering the demographic and clinical characteristics for the 10 study cases in comparison to 101 historical PICU controls, there was no statistically significant difference detected between the two populations with regard to gender, race/ethnicity, age, primary admitting diagnosis or median Pediatric Index of Mortality 3 (PIM3) risk of mortality score (Table 1). Genetic diagnoses made via rCES The average turnaround time for verbal return of expedited exome results was 7.7 days, with formal written documentation reported at 14 days. Five of ten patients had pathologic or likely pathologic variants identified. When considering these variants in context of the diagnostic yield (Table 2). Impact in hospital length of stay The median length of stay was 15 days for the rCES group compared to 59 days for the historical controls (p< 0.001), and the 75% interquartile range (IQR) for the rCES was 46.2 days compared to 95.5 days for the controls (Table 3). Impact of exome sequencing on clinical management For the five participants with positive genetic findings, three had genetic diagnoses thought to be clinically actionable with regarding their immediate inpatient management. Patient 001 was a 4.5-year-old male with new-onset refractory status epilepticus. He had been trialed on multiple anti-epileptic therapies and had medically refractory seizures. He was found to have a likely pathogenic variant in DEPDC5, which is a negative regular of the mTOR complex 1 pathway. Variants at this gene have previously been implicated in autosomal dominant focal epilepsies (OMIM # 604364). Importantly, despite the patient’s positive rCES finding, the pathologic nature of this aberration was questionable to the medical team given that it was found to be inherited from his mother, who did not display condition, the medical team opted to act on the results. The team trialed him on an mTOR inhibitor, everolimus, in hopes of controlling his seizures based on his molecular findings. Additionally, a muscle biopsy was cancelled upon receipt of his genetic findings. Ultimately, his seizures were not controlled, and everolimus was discontinued. Anecdotally, the patient’s family, as well as the medical team, felt that having the rCES information returned quickly within his hospitalization was extremely helpful in coordinating the next steps of his care and ultimately determining his disposition. Pediatr Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 October 23. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript
