HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, picu, patients, sequencing, genetic, study, patient, clinical, rces, exome, manuscript author, diagnosis, exome sequencing


was extremely helpful in coordinating the next steps of his care and ultimately determining his disposition. Pediatr Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 October 23. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Patient 006 was a 9-month-old female who was admitted with new onset complex seizures. Testing demonstrated a de novo heterozygous pathogenic variant in KCNB1 that encodes the alpha subunit of a voltage-gated potassium channel highly expressed in the mammalian brain . Heterogeneous de novo variants have been reported in multiple individuals with early-onset epileptic disorders, including infantile spasms and epileptic encephalopathy (OMIM # 616056) . Given her diagnostic genetic findings, the patient was no longer considered to have had a singular “seizure,” but was instead diagnosed to have epilepsy. This diagnosis carries long-term implications regarding the need for intensive neurologic follow- up, tailored medication management, and implementation of early intervention services. Such a comprehensive post-discharge plan may not have been offered without a formal diagnosis of epilepsy if the patient was thought to merely have had an isolated seizure. Furthermore, based on her molecular diagnosis, additional investigation into the etiology of her new-onset complex seizures was not pursued, the patient was maintained on levetiracetam, and 5 days later she was discharged. The medical team caring for the patient felt that her PICU course and management was streamlined with the availability of her genetic diagnosis early in her hospitalization. Patient 009 was a 2-month-old infant male, initially admitted to the inpatient pediatric service with chronic diarrhea and failure to thrive and transferred to the PICU with worsening metabolic acidosis, hypernatremic dehydration and hypoglycemia. The patient’s rCES demonstrated a de novo, heterozygous likely pathogenic variant in PIK3CD, a member of a family of lipid kinases involved in cell growth, proliferation, development, motility, survival and intracellular trafficking expressed in leukocytes . Heterozygous gain-of- function variants involving PIK3CD have been previously associated with immunodeficiency-14 (OMIM # 615513) . Given the patient’s presenting symptoms, the subspecialist teams felt that his protracted course could be explained by this primary immunodeficiency. Following the initiation of IVIG infusions, coupled with significant modifications to the patient’s diet, his diarrhea improved and he was able to tolerate feedings. Additionally, based on the patient’s molecular diagnosis, the medical team deferred further measures to invasively work-up the etiology of the patient’s failure to thrive. Lastly, the family reported gaining comfort with a genetic diagnosis. They reported that it
