HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, picu, patients, sequencing, genetic, study, patient, clinical, rces, exome, manuscript author, diagnosis, exome sequencing


medical team deferred further measures to invasively work-up the etiology of the patient’s failure to thrive. Lastly, the family reported gaining comfort with a genetic diagnosis. They reported that it helped them better understand why the patient’s chronic diarrhea was so refractory, feel understand the patient’s overall course and prognosis and better understand the implications regarding any future pregnancies. Discussion: We studied the impact of rCES on previously undiagnosed metabolic/neurologic patients in sequenced. Based on unpublished observational data from our experience with clinical exome sequencing in a more inclusive cohort, we narrowly defined the prospectively identified cohort here based on clinical criteria that we believed would be most impacted by rapid exome sequencing. The frequency of genetic diagnosis observed in our PICU cohort using rCES has been replicated in previous clinical studies conducted in both NICUs and Pediatr Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 October 23. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript those patients who underwent rCES in comparison to historical controls, identified via identical inclusion criteria and admitted to our medical/surgical PICU between 2010–2015. While it is impossible to prove from our limited pilot study that this reduction in LOS directly resulted from the use of rCES in these patients, it is a particularly noteworthy observation and one which warrants further exploration and study on a larger scale. as a multidisciplinary team, are fundamental to not only ensure a rapid turnaround time for genetic results, but also to provide adequate genetic counseling so that the family and the primary medical team understand the results and can meaningfully apply them to clinical decision-making . Our study confirms that the results of exome sequencing need to be rapidly available in order to be clinically impactful in the PICU. Given the variability in published turnaround times for exome sequencing, there is some concern that the 7-day turnaround time provided through this study is still too long to provide clinically actionable information given the nature of PICU management. For all ten of our study probands who underwent rCES, clinicians awaited documented confirmation of the rapid genetic results, and did not act upon verbal results, with regard to disclosing the information to the family and medically acting upon the results. Turnaround times will hopefully continue to decrease as this technology is more broadly adopted in the clinical setting. With regard to its impact on hospitalization. In the PICU setting, any opportunity
