HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: manuscript, author, author manuscript, picu, patients, sequencing, genetic, study, patient, clinical, rces, exome, manuscript author, diagnosis, exome sequencing


times will hopefully continue to decrease as this technology is more broadly adopted in the clinical setting. With regard to its impact on hospitalization. In the PICU setting, any opportunity to shave time off testing would certainly have an impact of clinical utility and decision-making. The most informative study would provide evidence that rapid return of exome resulted in both cost-savings and also CLIA-certified clinical laboratory to sequence our rCES cohort. Completion of this project did not depend on having a clinical laboratory capable of expedited exome sequencing on site. Thus, the workflow we present here regarding patient identification and prompt sequencing turnout times with verbal reporting of primary genetic findings could be replicated in any PICU. Our study focused on PICU patients with the primary admitting diagnoses of: hypotonia, seizure, developmental delay, altered mental status, failure to thrive, metabolic disease, hypoglycemia, or acute liver failure and were chosen because of the reasonable probability of an underlying identifiable genetic condition. The experience presented here suggests a decrease in inpatient length of stay for those patients who undergo rCES in comparison to historical controls. Similar findings were previously published by Farnaes et al. who demonstrated a decrease in inpatient length of stay in ICU patients secondary to early diagnosis of genetic disease . If this finding continues to hold true in larger studies, the cost of rCES could be ultimately offset by a for expedited exome sequencing in this unique PICU population, future studies are needed to examine the clinical outcomes and quality of care delivered to patients receiving rCES in the PICU. Additionally, long-term studies are needed to address how exome results are later utilized by the patient and/or family, and how these findings impact family quality of life. Pediatr Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 October 23. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Limitations The primary limitation of this study is that expedited CES was only completed on 10 PICU patients. Enrollment was limited to 10 PICU patients because this was a pilot study geared towards better understanding the application and feasibility of offering rCES at our institution. Additionally, this study does not provide cost-effectiveness analysis of exome sequencing in PICU patients compared to other diagnostic strategies. Many challenges exist in performing this analysis, not only in actually establishing how much particular tests and inpatient care costs (and the discrepancies between inpatient charges, costs and reimbursements),
