Behavioral Approaches to Obesity Management
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, pubmed, activity, obesity, group, intervention, lifestyle, physical, physical activity, diabetes, interventions, diet, free


ABSTRACT Obesity is extremely prevalent, affecting 42.5% of people in the United States alone. Advisory panels recommend a 5-10% reduction in initial weight for adults with obesity, or for those who are overweight, with a weight-related comorbidity. This loss can significantly reduce the risk of developing type 2 diabetes and improve other cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factors, as seen in the Diabetes Prevention Program and Look AHEAD trials. Greater reductions in weight produce even greater improvements in CVD risk factors. Weight loss can be achieved with a comprehensive lifestyle program that consists of dietary change, increased physical activity, and behavior therapy, provided in individual or group sessions. Behavioral treatment can be combined with diets of varying macronutrient composition as long as they induce a caloric deficit. Physical activity should be gradually increased over a period of 6 months, and although it is not effective as a stand-alone intervention for inducing a clinically meaningful mean weight loss, it is very important for facilitating weight maintenance and improving health outcomes. Principles of behavioral treatment include self-monitoring, stimulus control, and goal setting. Weight regain is common after an initial treatment period of 6-12 months, but frequent follow-up with an interventionist, which includes at least monthly counseling, can mitigate it. Treatments delivered by telephone, internet, or smartphone can be more easily disseminated to larger populations and can produce clinically meaningful mean weight losses if they include content similar to that of in-person lifestyle interventions and provide personalized feedback. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Obesity, defined by a body mass index (BMI) ≥ 30 kg/m 2 , is the most common nutritional disease in the United States, affecting 42.5% of adults ( 1 ) and 19% of children and adolescents ( 2 ). An additional 31% of American adults have a BMI in the overweight range of 25.0-29.9 kg/m 2 . Obesity is associated with an increased risk of developing cardiovascular disease ( 3 ), hypertension, dyslipidemia, and type 2 diabetes mellitus ( 4 ), along with other clinical conditions including nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, gastroesophageal reflux, obstructive sleep apnea, and osteoarthritis ( 5 - 7 ). A weight loss of 5-10% of initial body weight improves these complications and has been recommended by expert panels sponsored by the World Health Organization ( 8 ), the National Institutes of Health ( 9
