Behavioral Approaches to Obesity Management
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, pubmed, activity, obesity, group, intervention, lifestyle, physical, physical activity, diabetes, interventions, diet, free


of initial body weight improves these complications and has been recommended by expert panels sponsored by the World Health Organization ( 8 ), the National Institutes of Health ( 9 ), and several professional societies. Losses of this magnitude can be achieved with a high-intensity lifestyle intervention (also known as lifestyle modification or behavioral weight loss treatment), as described in the Guidelines for the Management of Overweight and Obesity in Adults (i.e., Obesity Guidelines) ( 10 ) developed by The American College of Cardiology, American Heart Association, and the Obesity Society. Comprehensive lifestyle interventions include three key components: diet, physical activity, and behavior therapy. This chapter describes each intervention component and reviews the short-term and long-term effectiveness of this approach. Lifestyle interventions have traditionally been delivered in 30-90 minute, in-person, group or individual sessions by a trained interventionist (usually a registered dietitian, psychologist, exercise physiologist, or other health-care professional). Although this is by far the best-researched treatment modality, the past two decades have seen an exponential growth in digital and other remote treatment approaches, which are reviewed in the final section. EFFICACY OF HIGH-INTENSITY, IN-PERSON LIFESTYLE INTERVENTION PROGRAMS Interventions categorized as “high-intensity” by the Obesity Guidelines provide a minimum of 14 treatment sessions during the first 6 months ( 10 ). Maintenance sessions may be delivered at a reduced frequency thereafter. In trials conducted in academic medical centers, participants treated by a 1200-1500 kcal/day diet, combined with regular exercise and a comprehensive program of group or individual behavior modification, lose an average of 5-8% of initial weight in 6 months ( 9 - 11 ), and approximately 60-65% of patients lose ≥5% of their initial weight. The lifestyle programs provided in the Diabetes Prevention Program and the Look AHEAD study provide excellent examples of high-intensity interventions. D iabetes Prevention Program In the Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP), more than 3,200 participants with obesity or overweight and impaired glucose tolerance were randomly assigned to a placebo, metformin, or an intensive lifestyle intervention, with the goal of inducing a 7% weight loss in the latter group ( 12 ). Participants in the lifestyle intervention group were given 16 individual on-site counseling sessions with a registered dietitian in the first 24 weeks, followed by at least one contact every other month for the remainder of the study. They were prescribed a reduced-calorie, low-fat diet (1200-2000 kcal/day, depending on initial body weight), and 150 min/week
