Behavioral Approaches to Obesity Management
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, pubmed, activity, obesity, group, intervention, lifestyle, physical, physical activity, diabetes, interventions, diet, free


at least one contact every other month for the remainder of the study. They were prescribed a reduced-calorie, low-fat diet (1200-2000 kcal/day, depending on initial body weight), and 150 min/week of physical activity. After an average of 2.8 years, participants in the lifestyle intervention group lost a mean of 5.6 kg, compared to 0.1 and 2.1 kg in the placebo and metformin groups, respectively. The 5.6 kg weight loss translated to a 58% relative reduction in the risk of developing type 2 diabetes. Ten years after randomization, the lifestyle intervention group had regained most of their lost weight, but their incidence of type 2 diabetes remained 34% below that in the placebo group ( 13 ). Look AHEAD (Action for Health in Diabetes) Study The Look AHEAD study enrolled more than 5,100 individuals with overweight/obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus, and participants were randomly assigned to a diabetes support and education (DSE) group or an intensive lifestyle intervention (ILI) group, with the aim of examining the long-term effects of a 7% weight loss on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality ( 14 ). Participants randomized to the DSE group received three group education sessions each year in the first 4 years, whereas participants in the ILI group received treatment similar to that in the DPP with some modification. During the first 6 months, ILI participants had 3 weekly group treatment sessions and one individual visit per month and replaced two meals per day with a liquid supplement (i.e., shake). They were instructed to consume 1200-1800 kcal/day (with calories adjusted based on initial weight). During months 7 to 12, ILI participants had two group sessions and one individual visit each month, and used meal replacements for one meal per day. For the next 3 years, participants were offered one individual on-site visit and one phone (or e-mail) contact per month. After 1 year, ILI participants lost 8.6% of baseline weight, compared with 0.6% for the DSE group, and at year 4, mean weight losses were 4.7% versus 1.1%, respectively. These latter losses were maintained at 8 years, at which time patients in the ILI group lost 4.7% of initial weight, compared with 2.1% for DSE participants. The study was ended at a mean of 9.6 years of post-randomization follow-up because there were no differences in cardiovascular morbidity and mortality between groups. However, patients in ILI, compared to DSE, had significantly greater reductions in
