Behavioral Approaches to Obesity Management
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, pubmed, activity, obesity, group, intervention, lifestyle, physical, physical activity, diabetes, interventions, diet, free


of 9.6 years of post-randomization follow-up because there were no differences in cardiovascular morbidity and mortality between groups. However, patients in ILI, compared to DSE, had significantly greater reductions in HbA 1C , lost more weight, had larger improvements in cardiovascular disease risk factors (i.e., reductions in systolic and diastolic blood pressure and levels of triglycerides), and used fewer diabetes, hypertension, and lipid-lowering medications. Analyses showed that the greater the weight loss, the greater the improvements in those risk factors ( Figure 1 ) ( 15 ). Figure 1. Change in risk factors by weight loss categories for the Look AHEAD cohort. Data in all figures are presented as least square means and 95% CIs adjusted for clinical sites, age, sex, race/ethnicity, baseline weight, baseline measurement of the outcome variable, and treatment group assignment. Figure is reprinted with permission from reference ( 15 ). Compared to DSE, additional benefits in the ILI group included greater reduction of depression symptoms and remission or reduced severity of obstructive sleep apnea. The Look AHEAD and DPP studies both demonstrate that weight loss and long-term benefits to health can be achieved through participation in a lifestyle modification program. However, a follow-up assessment of ILI and DSE participants 16 years post-randomization continued to reveal no significant differences in CVD morbidity and mortality between the two groups ( 16 ). LIFESTYLE INTERVENTION COMPONENTS Dietary Recommendations The primary goal of the dietary prescription in a behavioral weight loss program is to induce a 500-750 kcal/day deficit ( 10 , 11 ). For women, this involves consuming about 1200-1500 kcal/day, while for men the goal is about 1500-1800 kcal/day. Calorie targets also can be based on body weight, with 1200-1500 kcal/day recommended for people who weigh less than 250 lbs. at baseline and 1500-1800 kcal/day for those ≥250 lbs. ( 10 , 11 ). The ideal composition of dietary macronutrients for producing weight loss has been studied extensively, with options including low-glycemic index diets, Mediterranean-type diets, low-fat diets, and reduced-carbohydrate diets ( 17 ). A low glycemic index is based on eating a diet containing foods with a lower glycemic load, that are less likely to cause large increases in postprandial blood glucose levels ( 19 , 20 ). A Mediterranean diet focuses on consuming higher amounts of plant-based foods, including fruits, legumes, vegetables, monounsaturated fats such as olive oil, and fish; and reduced consumption of foods high
