Behavioral Approaches to Obesity Management
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, pubmed, activity, obesity, group, intervention, lifestyle, physical, physical activity, diabetes, interventions, diet, free


). A Mediterranean diet focuses on consuming higher amounts of plant-based foods, including fruits, legumes, vegetables, monounsaturated fats such as olive oil, and fish; and reduced consumption of foods high in saturated fats, like red meat and butter ( 21 ). Low-fat diets provide 10% to 20% of calories from fat and recommend plant-based foods including whole-grains, fruits, and vegetables ( 22 ). A low carbohydrate diet approach, like an Atkins or “ketogenic” diet, is characterized by consuming as few as 20 g/day of carbohydrates, and focusing on foods that are higher in protein and fat ( 23 ). The outcomes of comparative studies of these different types of diets have consistently concluded that adequate weight loss depends less on the macronutrient content of the diet and more on the caloric deficit ( 17 ). The POUNDS LOST trial supported this conclusion in a large, 2-year study that randomized patients to one of four diets with different macronutrient compositions, varying in proportions of fat, protein, and carbohydrate content (fat/protein/carbohydrate content: 20/15/65%; 20/25/55%; 40/15/45%; and 40/25/35%, respectively) ( 24 ). The study showed no difference in the amount of weight lost among the diet groups, all of which were designed to produce an energy deficit of approximately 750 kcal per day. Several other studies have also found that different dietary approaches produce weight losses that are comparable, provided there is a sufficient reduction in calories ( 25 , 26 ) ( Figure 2 ). The use of portion-controlled diets have been shown to facilitate greater weight losses than diets of conventional foods, but this is primarily due to improved adherence to calorie goals and not to their macronutrient profile ( 27 ). Figure 2. Change in body weight for participants in low-fat and low-carbohydrate diet groups after 24 months, based on random-effects linear model. Figure is reprinted with permission from reference ( 25 ). Because it appears that caloric restriction contributes to weight loss more than the macronutrient composition of the diet, diets should be chosen based on patients’ personal preferences and by the presence of comorbid conditions. For example, Fabricatore et al. ( 28 ) demonstrated that a low-glycemic index diet produced greater improvements in HbA 1c in patients with overweight and type 2 diabetes than did a traditional low-fat diet, even though the two diets produced comparable weight losses. Low-fat diets appear to be associated with greater reductions in
