Behavioral Approaches to Obesity Management
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, pubmed, activity, obesity, group, intervention, lifestyle, physical, physical activity, diabetes, interventions, diet, free


al ( 35 ) 120 (76% F) 66% completed 9 Low-fat diet Low-carbohydrate, ketogenic diet with nutritional supplements -6.7% a -12.9% b 6 All participants were hyperlipidemic. Triglycerides decreased more and HDL cholesterol increased more in low-carbohydrate group. Table is reprinted with permission from reference ( 18 ). All studies were analyzed by use of an intention-to-treat population, with the exception as indicated by an asterisk (*). Different letters (in superscript) indicate statistically significant differences in weight loss between groups. F indicates female; LDL, low-density lipoprotein; HDL, high-density lipoprotein; VLDL, very low-density lipoprotein; HbA 1c , hemoglobin A 1c ; MR, meal replacements; CVD, cardiovascular disease. * A completer’s population was examined. †Results reported as “greater,” “larger,” “increased more,” etc. represent statistically significant differences between treatment conditions. Physical Activity Recommendations Physical activity is an important component of a comprehensive lifestyle intervention, in which participants are typically instructed to increase their physical activity gradually to approximately 150-180 min/week over the first 6 months. This goal can be achieved by engaging in moderate physical activity (e.g., brisk walking) for 30 minutes on 5 days per week ( 10 , 11 , 13 ). Physical activity can be increased by incorporating short bouts of lifestyle activity into individuals’ daily routines, such as increasing the amount of daily walking or using the stairs when possible, or by longer bouts of structured physical activity (e.g., at the gym). Individuals should be encouraged to engage in physical activities that they enjoy rather than be prescribed a particular activity. The recommended physical activity levels for facilitating long-term weight management are higher (225-300 min/week) than those for losing weight ( 36 ). The effects of physical activity on weight loss, the maintenance of weight loss, and CVD risk factors have been investigated extensively. PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND WEIGHT LOSS Physical activity has a modest impact on weight loss when compared with the effect of caloric restriction ( 36 ). This was demonstrated in a 12-week study in which participants achieved losses of 0.3-0.6% (male vs female) of initial weight from physical activity alone, compared to 5.5-8.4% (female vs male) and 7.5-11.4% (female vs male) losses for participants who reduced their calorie intake and those who changed both diet and physical activity, respectively ( 37 ). The exercise performed in this study consisted of 30 min/day of moderate activity on 5 days per week. Similarly, Wing et al ( 38
