Behavioral Approaches to Obesity Management
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, pubmed, activity, obesity, group, intervention, lifestyle, physical, physical activity, diabetes, interventions, diet, free


physical activity, respectively ( 37 ). The exercise performed in this study consisted of 30 min/day of moderate activity on 5 days per week. Similarly, Wing et al ( 38 ) reported weight losses of 2.1, 9.1, and 10.3 kg after 6 months in participants assigned to physical activity alone, diet alone, and diet plus physical activity groups, respectively, all of whom were provided behavioral intervention. PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND WEIGHT MAINTENANCE Although exercise has a limited impact on weight loss during the initial phase of treatment, it plays an important role in weight loss maintenance. Several studies have shown that the more physical activity the patient engages in, the better the maintenance of lost weight ( 39 , 40 ). Jakicic et al ( 40 ), in a secondary analysis of a randomized controlled trial, demonstrated that women who exercised more than 200 min/week maintained greater weight losses than those who exercised 150-199 min/week or <150 min/week. Data from the National Weight Control Registry have also provided evidence that high levels of physical activity are characteristic of individuals who report long-term, sustained weight loss ( 41 ). The Registry follows patients who have lost a minimum of 13.6 kg (i.e., 30 lb.) in six months and maintained this loss for at least 1 year. Of these successful weight loss maintainers, 91% reported that they were exercising consistently, with women expending 2,545 kcal/week and men 3,293 kcal/week ( 42 ). Based on these findings and other evidence, the current recommendation by the American College of Sports Medicine is that, for weight maintenance, individuals should exercise at a minimum level equivalent to an hour of brisk walking per day ( 36 ). PHYSICAL ACTIVVITY AND CARDIOVASCULAR HEALTH Physical activity also is crucial for improving cardiovascular health for both individuals with obesity and those of average-weight. Even in the absence of significant weight loss, regular bouts of aerobic activity have been found to reduce blood pressure ( 43 ), lipids ( 44 ), and visceral fat ( 45 ), the latter of which is associated with improved glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity in non-diabetic individuals and glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes ( 46 , 47 ). Several authors have evaluated the independent effects of cardiorespiratory fitness and adiposity on subsequent CVD mortality and have suggested that high levels of cardiorespiratory fitness significantly decrease the CVD mortality risk in individuals with
