Behavioral Approaches to Obesity Management
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, pubmed, activity, obesity, group, intervention, lifestyle, physical, physical activity, diabetes, interventions, diet, free


the independent effects of cardiorespiratory fitness and adiposity on subsequent CVD mortality and have suggested that high levels of cardiorespiratory fitness significantly decrease the CVD mortality risk in individuals with overweight and obesity, regardless of adiposity. Barry et al ( 48 ) performed a meta-analysis of 10 studies and concluded that, compared to individuals who were fit and had normal weight, unfit individuals had twice the risk of all-cause mortality regardless of their BMI, whereas individuals who were fit and had obesity had similar mortality risks as normal-weight, fit individuals. Similarly, in a longitudinal study of 25,000 men, Lee et al ( 49 ) found that those who were lean but unfit had double the mortality rate of those who were fit and lean. These findings indicate that all individuals should increase their physical activity to improve their health, regardless of its impact on body weight. Principles of Behavior Therapy The third component of lifestyle intervention is behavior therapy, which refers to a set of principles and techniques used to help patients adopt dietary and activity recommendations. Behavioral principles were first applied to the treatment of obesity in the 1960’s and early 1970’s and, since then, have been developed into a program of behavioral and cognitive strategies ( 11 ). The core components of behavior therapy include goal setting, self-monitoring, stimulus control, and problem solving. GOAL SETTING In behavioral weight loss treatment, goal setting refers to setting specific targets for making changes to the patient’s calorie intake, physical activity, and eating and exercise habits ( 50 , 51 ). Goals need to be objective and easily measurable in order to facilitate patients’ assessment of their progress. Patients are encouraged to have a target range for their total daily caloric intake (or other dietary goals), a daily or weekly exercise goal in minutes, and short- and long-term weight loss goals. Other behavioral goals are introduced as treatment proceeds. Patients should set goals that facilitate their losing about 0.5-1.0 kg per week, for a total loss of 5-10 percent of initial body weight at the end of the weight loss phase (at about 6 months). These goals should be trackable and should specify when and how the goal will be accomplished. During a typical treatment session, the lifestyle interventionist reviews each patient’s progress in achieving goals from the previous session and helps the patient set new goals. If the goals from a
