Behavioral Approaches to Obesity Management
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, pubmed, activity, obesity, group, intervention, lifestyle, physical, physical activity, diabetes, interventions, diet, free


a typical treatment session, the lifestyle interventionist reviews each patient’s progress in achieving goals from the previous session and helps the patient set new goals. If the goals from a previous session are not met, the interventionist assists individuals with identifying and reducing barriers to goal achievement or with modifying their goals accordingly. In group programs, this information is often shared with the entire group to further increase accountability and support problem-solving. SELF-MONITORING Monitoring target behaviors in a systematic way is a crucial aspect of the behavioral approach to weight loss. Self-monitoring provides instant feedback about the effectiveness of behavior change efforts. It can answer the most important question about behaviors: are they getting better, staying the same, or getting worse? Daily records also function to increase patients’ awareness of target behaviors and their effect on weight change. Self-monitoring is strongly linked to success in weight loss. Individuals who regularly monitor their weight, activity levels, and eating patterns usually achieve the largest weight losses ( 52 , 53 ). Patients are encouraged to record all foods and beverages consumed and their calorie content (or an alternative dietary target) to determine if they have met their dietary goals. A thorough self-monitoring report might also include the individual’s feelings that day, particularly those that were associated with excess or unplanned eating, or other individually-identified triggers for overeating. Tracking the minutes and type of physical activity or pedometer step counts can be used to monitor improvements in the patient’s activity level. Patients also should be instructed to weigh themselves regularly at home, at least once per week, and to keep a record of their weekly weights. Although some patients prefer traditional paper records, the majority now track these targets using smartphone applications (apps) and other digital devices such as wearable physical activity trackers and “smart” scales that automatically record body weight. Although these digital tools increase self-monitoring consistency and are preferred by most patients ( 54 ), they have not been found to enhance weight loss when compared to traditional tracking methods ( 52 , 55 , 56 ). Novel tracking tools such as digital food photography and bite counting devices may further reduce the burden of active recording, but some studies have suggested that these methods are less strongly correlated with weight loss and may produce smaller mean losses than active recording methods ( 57 ). In lifestyle intervention programs, patients review
