Behavioral Approaches to Obesity Management
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, pubmed, activity, obesity, group, intervention, lifestyle, physical, physical activity, diabetes, interventions, diet, free


suggested that these methods are less strongly correlated with weight loss and may produce smaller mean losses than active recording methods ( 57 ). In lifestyle intervention programs, patients review their self-monitoring records with an interventionist who helps them to assess their progress, set goals, and problem solve barriers to goal adherence. Individuals often underestimate calorie intake and overestimate physical activity ( 58 ), and interventionists can help patients who report meeting their calorie and activity goals but do not lose weight to identify additional sources of caloric intake. These may come from underestimates of portion sizes or hidden sources of fat and/or sugar intake. Interventionists also can help patients address barriers to effective self-monitoring, or set more flexible self-monitoring goals (e.g., record on fewer days per week), as appropriate. STIMULUS CONTROL The goal of stimulus control is to alter external and internal cues that influence eating and exercise behaviors ( 11 , 50 , 51 ). In classical conditioning, cues develop when two stimuli (e.g., objects, activities) are repeatedly experienced together, which creates an association between the two. The appearance of one stimulus can invoke the other stimulus. Food cues are cues that cause an individual to think about eating or about specific foods. These may include external cues, such as the sight or smell of food, or an activity that is frequently engaged in while eating, such as watching television. Internal food cues include both physical sensations and thoughts or emotions that the person has come to associate with eating. Similarly, activity cues include internal and external experiences that the person has come to associate either with being active (e.g., the sight of sneakers by the door) or being inactive (e.g., the couch). Patients learn to reduce negative food and activity cues -- either by avoiding problem cues or by creating new habits in response to those cues -- and to enhance cues for desired behaviors. Examples of cue reduction include avoiding places that sell or serve high-calorie foods, staying away from all-you-can-eat buffets, and keeping any high-calorie foods that are associated with overeating out of the house. The patient can instead be encouraged to buy single portions of these foods on planned occasions. For cues that cannot be avoided, the patient may be encouraged to identify an appropriate alternative behavior, such as taking a 5-minute break instead of snacking when bored at work. To increase cues for
