Behavioral Approaches to Obesity Management
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, pubmed, activity, obesity, group, intervention, lifestyle, physical, physical activity, diabetes, interventions, diet, free


be avoided, the patient may be encouraged to identify an appropriate alternative behavior, such as taking a 5-minute break instead of snacking when bored at work. To increase cues for healthy eating, patients can be taught to improve the visibility and availability of healthy, low-calorie foods in their home or workplace, such as by storing these foods at eye-level. They can also add cues that promote physical activity, such as arranging to walk at a certain time every day with a partner or leaving their gym bag in their car so that it is the first thing that they see when they leave work. By making these changes, patients can ensure that their work and home environments facilitate (rather than interfere with) weight loss. COGNITIVE STRATEGIES Strategies from cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) have been incorporated into many lifestyle interventions. CBT focuses on identifying, testing, and correcting maladaptive thoughts in order to change emotions or behavior. For example, thoughts like “I’ll never reach my weight loss goal; I might as well eat whatever I want.”) can reduce the likelihood that a patient will adhere to their dietary goals. Patients are taught to create a rational response to these negative thoughts, such as by noting that “My weight loss may be slower than I would like, but continuing to make healthy choices gives me the best chance of long-term success,” or by highlighting some of the benefits that they experience when they make healthier eating choices ( 50 , 51 ). Some lifestyle programs also have incorporated strategies from motivational interviewing that are designed to help patients resolve ambivalence about the costs and benefits of behavior change, identify reasons for change, and improve self-efficacy. More recently, alternative cognitive strategies derived from mindfulness and acceptance-based psychological treatments have been incorporated into weight loss interventions. These treatments promote non-judgmental, present-moment awareness and willingness to experience discomfort in order to pursue long-term goals rather than cognitive change. Thus far, programs that place a significant emphasis on any of these cognitive techniques have not consistently enhanced weight loss when compared to standard lifestyle interventions, and those shown to be superior have only increased weight loss by 1-2 kg ( 59 ). However, because fewer studies have incorporated these techniques into comprehensive, high-intensity lifestyle interventions, they remain promising targets for future research. STRUCTURE OF IN-PERSON BEHAVIORAL TREATMENT: SHORT- AND LONG-TERM The lifestyle interventions provided in studies like the
