Behavioral Approaches to Obesity Management
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, pubmed, activity, obesity, group, intervention, lifestyle, physical, physical activity, diabetes, interventions, diet, free


these techniques into comprehensive, high-intensity lifestyle interventions, they remain promising targets for future research. STRUCTURE OF IN-PERSON BEHAVIORAL TREATMENT: SHORT- AND LONG-TERM The lifestyle interventions provided in studies like the DPP and Look AHEAD followed a structured curriculum that gradually introduced different behavior change skills. Detailed treatment descriptions can be obtained from the intervention manuals for these two studies ( 50 , 51 ) or an adaptation of the DPP protocol provided by Wadden, Tsai, and Tronieri for in-person delivery in primary care settings ( 60 ). Behavioral weight loss interventions are most commonly delivered in group sessions, which have been found to be as effective as individual counseling for weight loss in several studies ( 61 , 62 ). It may be that any weight loss benefit of receiving personalized support with individual counseling is roughly equivalent to the benefits of a greater degree of social support, empathic understanding, and healthy competition among group members. However, group treatment is more cost effective than individual counseling. Frequency and duration of contact during the weight loss period are additional predictors of weight loss success ( 10 , 61 ). This benefit is apparent in trials comparing high-intensity lifestyle intervention programs to programs that provided identical dietary and physical activity recommendations with a lower session frequency, as well as in systematic reviews and meta-analyses of the efficacy of lifestyle interventions. For example, in a study by Perri and colleagues ( 63 ) that compared three different visit schedules to a control condition, the group that received 8 treatment sessions in the first 6 months had a weight loss of 3.5 kg at month 24 that did not differ significantly from the 2.9 kg loss of the control group, whereas patients who received 16 sessions had a loss of 6.7 kg that was superior to both groups. Of note, the group that received 24 sessions in the first 6 month did not differ in weight loss from the 16-session group at any time, suggesting that there may not be a benefit of further increasing visit intensity (while increasing costs). In 2012, the United States Preventative Services Task Force recommended that weight loss programs include at least 12-26 intervention sessions per year for optimal weight loss ( 64 ). This recommendation was based on their systematic review, which reported weight losses of 4 to 7 kg for programs with that level of intensity compared
