Behavioral Approaches to Obesity Management
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, pubmed, activity, obesity, group, intervention, lifestyle, physical, physical activity, diabetes, interventions, diet, free


or smart-phone applications; weekly monitoring of weight; structured curriculum of behavioral change (e.g., DPP), including goal setting, problem solving, and stimulus control; regular feedback and support from a trained interventionist Occasional or frequent monitoring of food intake and physical activity, as needed; weekly-to-daily monitoring of weight; curriculum of behavioral change, including problem solving, cognitive restructuring, and relapse prevention; regular feedback from a trained interventionist * Data are from the Guidelines (2013) for the Management of Overweight and Obesity in Adults, reported by Jensen et al. ( 10 ). The guidelines concluded that a variety of dietary approaches that differ widely in macronutrient composition, including ad libitum approaches (in which a lower calorie intake is achieved by restriction or elimination of particular food groups or by the provision of prescribed foods), can lead to weight loss provided they induce an adequate energy deficit. The guidelines recommended that practitioners, in selecting a weight-loss diet, consider its potential contribution to the management of obesity-related coexisting disorders (e.g., type 2 diabetes and hypertension). The guidelines did not address the possible benefits of strength training, in addition to aerobic activity. DPP denotes Diabetes Prevention Program. Table is reprinted with permission from reference ( 66 ) REMOTELY-DELIVERED LIFESTYLE MODIFICATION INTERVENTIONS In-person interventions can be costly because they require adequate facilities for hosting the intervention, staff for checking in patients, and the time of trained providers to deliver the intervention. Travel time also can represent a cost and inconvenience for patients, and many individuals, particularly those in rural and economically disadvantaged urban areas, do not have adequate access to evidence-based care. Over the past two decades, a growing body of research has investigated the use of telephone, computer, and smartphone-based methods for delivering lifestyle interventions to patients. Larger numbers of individuals can be reached with these methods at a cost that is significantly less than that of in-person interventions, particularly if little to no provider input is required. The COVID-19 pandemic further highlighted the need to identify effective ways of delivering lifestyle interventions remotely, as in-person treatment programs were either suspended or quickly migrated to phone calls or videoconferencing platforms due to stay-at-home orders and social distancing policies. Telehealth Delivery Remote interventions delivered live by a provider via telephone or videoconferencing, often referred to as telehealth, produce weight loss outcomes that are most consistent with those of in-person interventions. This delivery method improves treatment access and reduces
