Behavioral Approaches to Obesity Management
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, pubmed, activity, obesity, group, intervention, lifestyle, physical, physical activity, diabetes, interventions, diet, free


via telephone or videoconferencing, often referred to as telehealth, produce weight loss outcomes that are most consistent with those of in-person interventions. This delivery method improves treatment access and reduces travel time and cost for participants, but it has minimal impact on provider time and training costs. Several large trials have compared individual or group telephone calls to in-person treatment delivery. For example, Donnelly et al ( 67 ) achieved median 26-week weight losses of 13.0% with group conference calls which did not differ from the 12.7% loss of patients who attended on-site groups (both also received a 12-week 1200-1500 kcal/day portion-controlled diet). Similarly, Appel et al ( 68 ) showed comparable weight losses at 24 months for participants who received telephone-delivered sessions compared to those that received in-person visits (4.6 kg and 5.1 kg, respectively). Telephone-based interventions also have shown to be effective for weight maintenance and appear to attenuate weight regain to a similar degree as ongoing in-person sessions ( 62 , 65 , 69 ). In the past several years, videoconferencing platforms have become more widely accessible. These platforms provide the capability for remotely delivered face-to-face interactions, which allow for visual demonstrations and may enhance feelings of connection with the interventionist and/or group ( 70 ). This delivery format has yet to be compared to in-person intervention in a randomized trial; however, pilot and short-term studies report weight losses that are 3 to 8 kg larger than control or minimal intervention conditions ( 71 - 73 ), which suggests that videoconferencing also may produce weight losses that are similar in magnitude to those of in-person interventions. Digital Delivery via the Internet or Smartphone Digitally-delivered programs in which standardized intervention content is delivered via digitally-accessible articles, messages (e.g., e-mail or SMS), or pre-recorded videos further reduce costs and interventionist burden when compared to live interventionist delivery either in person or through telehealth. Some of the earliest interventions with digital session content were developed for delivery via the internet. In an early study, Tate el al. ( 74 ) demonstrated that an Internet-based behavioral approach consisting of email-based lessons, online self-monitoring of diet and physical activity, and e-mail feedback from an interventionist produced greater 6-month weight losses of 4.1 kg compared to the 1.6 kg loss achieved by participants who received an educational program (i.e., Internet resources with no specific instruction in changing eating and activity habits). As technology
