Behavioral Approaches to Obesity Management
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, pubmed, activity, obesity, group, intervention, lifestyle, physical, physical activity, diabetes, interventions, diet, free


kg compared to the 1.6 kg loss achieved by participants who received an educational program (i.e., Internet resources with no specific instruction in changing eating and activity habits). As technology has evolved, digital programs have more typically been developed for mobile delivery via smartphone apps or in formats accessible via either the computer or smartphone. Intervention delivery via text message also has been evaluated, but typically produces small mean weight losses (1-2 kg) when used as a stand-alone intervention format ( 75 ). Relatively few studies have directly compared the efficacy of digitally-delivered to in-person treatment. Harvey-Berino and colleagues ( 76 ) compared the same 24-session group lifestyle intervention delivered weekly: 1) in-person; 2) by internet (including online content, self-monitoring tools, and weekly chat groups); or 3) in a hybrid format (the internet program with monthly in-person meetings). Weight losses were 8.0, 5.5, and 6.0 kg, respectively, with in-person treatment superior to the other two groups. These findings, along with the results of multiple systematic reviews, suggest that the strongest digitally-delivered interventions produce short-term losses that are at least 20-35% smaller than those achieved with in-person counseling ( 77 , 78 ). Such interventions are valuable given their wide reach and low cost, and the difference between the results of these digital interventions and in-person programs is likely to wane over time with regain. However, the average effect of digitally-delivered interventions is small (1-3 kg), highlighting the importance of identifying features associated with effective interventions ( 77 , 78 ). The provision of tailored feedback is by far the most commonly identified characteristic that differentiates effective from less effective digital interventions ( 77 , 78 ). In earlier digital trials, feedback was provided directly by an interventionist. Increasingly, digital programs provide fully-automated, personalized feedback, generated from algorithms that analyze participants’ self-monitoring data. This tailored automated feedback appears to produce weight losses that are similar in magnitude to programs with interventionist-delivered feedback (e.g., 79 , 80 ). A 2015 study by Martin and colleagues ( 81 ) evaluated a combined approach providing participants with highly personalized automated and weekly interventionist-initiated feedback (by phone, email, or app), in addition to app-based lesson materials, in an effort to maximize weight loss. Participants were given activity monitors and smart scales, and the app delivered automated graphic feedback comparing their physical activity and weight loss to expected targets (calculated based on their starting weight and
