Behavioral Approaches to Obesity Management
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, pubmed, activity, obesity, group, intervention, lifestyle, physical, physical activity, diabetes, interventions, diet, free


given activity monitors and smart scales, and the app delivered automated graphic feedback comparing their physical activity and weight loss to expected targets (calculated based on their starting weight and calorie prescription). If participants’ weight losses fell outside of the expected range, they were prompted to select a behavioral strategy (e.g., use portion-controlled foods) to get back on track. In this 12-week pilot study, intervention participants lost 9.4 kg compared to 0.6 kg in the control group ( 81 ). Additional research is investigating the potential for just-in-time adaptive interventions (JITAIs) that use machine learning to identify individual risk factors for behavioral lapses and provide tailored feedback and intervention strategies at the times when an individual is most at risk. An initial evaluation of a JITAI intervention that was designed to promote dietary adherence by predicting dietary lapses produced a 10-week weight loss of 4.7% when combined with an app-based commercial weight loss program ( 82 ). User engagement has been found to correlate with weight loss in several digital trials, making it another potential target for improving the efficacy of digital interventions. One approach for enhancing engagement is to increase the interactive quality of the digital program. Thomas, Leahey, and Wing ( 83 ) tested the efficacy of a 12-week online program that provided interactive lessons that incorporated videos, quizzes, and practical exercises. The program also provided self-monitoring tools and fully automated weekly feedback based on participants’ recorded data. At 6 months, intervention participants lost 5.4 kg, compared to 1.3 kg for control participants who received static lessons about the benefits of weight loss (without behavioral strategies). Other efforts to increase interactive engagement have incorporated lifestyle programs into social media platforms, virtual reality, or online games, and several of these interventions also have produced mean weight losses of 4-5 kg ( 84 ). A recent study by Vaz and colleagues ( 85 ) combined several of these techniques into a smartphone app that provided automated feedback on weight and physical activity recorded via smart scale and activity tracker, respectively; text- and app-initiated engagement prompts from an interventionist; social networking and sharing of food and exercise data; and peer competitions based on dietary and physical activity adherence. The app produced a mean weight loss of 7.2 kg at 6 months, which was 4.2 kg larger than a control group that received two weight management visits. Unfortunately, the efficacy of most
