Behavioral Approaches to Obesity Management
KEYWORDS: weight, loss, weight loss, pubmed, activity, obesity, group, intervention, lifestyle, physical, physical activity, diabetes, interventions, diet, free


a mean weight loss of 7.2 kg at 6 months, which was 4.2 kg larger than a control group that received two weight management visits. Unfortunately, the efficacy of most commercially-available weight loss apps has not been systematically evaluated. A majority of these apps include only a small percentage of the behavioral strategies typically featured in intensive lifestyle programs ( 86 ), and most do not provide tailored feedback. Such programs are not likely to induce a clinically meaningful weight loss for most individuals. For example, the highly popular app, MyFitnessPal, which helps users set a calorie goal and track food intake, produced a mean loss of only 0.03 kg in 6 months in primary care patients, compared with a gain of 0.3 kg in controls ( 87 ). The frequency of logins declined sharply after the first month (to close to 0), which again underscores the problem of maintaining user engagement with digitally-delivered interventions that do not provide interactive content. Results have been more promising for online and app-based commercial programs that do provide comprehensive intervention content. Weight losses of 4-5 kg were achieved at 3-6 months in a randomized trial evaluating an online commercial program that provided nine weekly e-mail delivered video lessons, online content (e.g., recipes), self-monitoring tools, personalized summaries of self-monitoring data, and the option to chat with an interventionist online ( 88 ). Overall, these findings suggest that providers can support their patients’ weight loss by helping them to identify digital programs that offer comprehensive session content and personalized feedback. CONCLUSION There is clear evidence that intensive lifestyle interventions are effective in helping patients with obesity to lose 5-10% of initial body weight, a loss that is associated with improvements in CVD risk factors and other obesity-related comorbidities. Lifestyle approaches emphasize prescriptions for dietary intake, increased physical activity, and behavioral skills such as self-monitoring. Traditionally, these interventions have been delivered in-person by a trained interventionist, which limits their potential dissemination. It is also possible to achieve a clinically meaningful weight loss with digitally-delivered programs that include little to no contact from an interventionist, provided the intervention provides comprehensive session content, tailored feedback, and features that promote user engagement. One of the most challenging aspects of behavioral weight control is keeping off lost weight. Several strategies can facilitate this goal, including maintaining patient-provider contact beyond the initial weight loss intervention, either in-person or remotely, and prescribing
