Anatomy and Ultrastructure of Bone – Histogenesis, Growth and Remodeling
KEYWORDS: bone, matrix, cells, cell, osteoclast, formation, resorption, growth, osteoblasts, remodeling, surface, bone matrix, bone formation, osteoblast, collagen


ABSTRACT Bones have three major functions: to serve as mechanical support, sites of muscle insertion and as a reserve of calcium and phosphate for the organism. Recently, a fourth function has been attributed to the skeleton: an endocrine organ. The organic matrix of bone is formed mostly of collagen, but also non-collagenous proteins. Hydroxyapatite crystals bind to both types of proteins. Most components of the bone matrix are synthesized and secreted by osteoblasts. Resorption of the bone matrix is required for adaptation to growth, repair and mineral mobilization. This process is performed by the macrophage-related osteoclast. Bone is remodeled throughout life through a coordinated sequence of events which involve the sequential actions of osteoclasts and osteoblasts, replacing old bone with new bone. In the normal adult skeleton, remodeling is coupled such that the level of resorption is equal to the level of formation and bone density remains constant. Intramembranous ossification is the process by which flat bones are formed. For this process, osteoblasts differentiate directly from mesenchymal cells to form the bone matrix. Long bones are formed by endochondral ossification, which is characterized by the presence of a cartilaginous model in which chondrocytes differentiate and mineralized cartilage is replaced with bone through remodeling. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Bone, a specialized and mineralized connective tissue, makes up, with cartilage, the skeletal system, which serves three main functions: A mechanical function as support and site of muscle attachment for locomotion; a protective function for vital organs and bone marrow; and finally a metabolic function as a reserve of calcium and phosphate used for the maintenance of serum homeostasis, which is essential to life. Recently, a fourth important function has been attributed to bone tissue – that of an endocrine organ. Bone cells produce fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23) and osteocalcin. FGF23 regulates phosphate handling in the kidney and osteocalcin regulates energy and glucose metabolism (see below) ( 1 , 2 ). In this chapter the anatomy and cell biology of bone is described as well as the mechanisms of bone remodeling, development, and growth. Remodeling is the process by which bone is turned-over, allowing the maintenance of the shape, quality, and amount of the skeleton. This process is characterized by the coordinated actions of osteoclasts and osteoblasts, organized in bone multicellular units (BMUs) which follow an Activation-Resorption-Formation sequence
