Anatomy and Ultrastructure of Bone – Histogenesis, Growth and Remodeling
KEYWORDS: bone, matrix, cells, cell, osteoclast, formation, resorption, growth, osteoblasts, remodeling, surface, bone matrix, bone formation, osteoblast, collagen


shape, quality, and amount of the skeleton. This process is characterized by the coordinated actions of osteoclasts and osteoblasts, organized in bone multicellular units (BMUs) which follow an Activation-Resorption-Formation sequence of events. During embryonic development, bone formation occurs by two different means: intramembranous ossification and endochondral ossification. Bone Growth is a term used to describe the changes in bone structure once the skeleton is formed and during the period of skeletal growth and maturation. BONE AS AN ORGAN: MACROSCOPIC ORGANIZATION Two types of bones are found in the skeleton: flat bones (skull bones, scapula, mandible, and ileum) and long bones (tibia, femur, humerus, etc.). These are derived by two distinct types of development: intramembranous and endochondral, respectively, although the development and growth of long bones actually involve both cellular processes. The main difference between intramembranous and endochondral bone formation is the presence of a cartilaginous model, or anlage, in the latter. Long bones have two wider extremities (the epiphyses), a cylindrical hollow portion in the middle (the midshaft or diaphysis), and a transition zone between them (the metaphysis). The epiphysis on the one hand and the metaphysis and midshaft on the other hand originate from two independent ossification centers, and are separated by a layer of cartilage, the epiphyseal cartilage (which also constitutes the growth plate) during the period of development and growth. This layer of proliferative cells and expanding cartilage matrix is responsible for the longitudinal growth of bones; it progressively mineralizes and is later remodeled and replaced by bone tissue by the end of the growth period (see section on Skeletal Development). The external part of the bones is formed by a thick and dense layer of calcified tissue, the cortex (compact bone) which, in the diaphysis, encloses the medullary cavity where the hematopoietic bone marrow is housed. Toward the metaphysis and the epiphysis, the cortex becomes progressively thinner and the internal space is filled with a network of thin, calcified trabeculae forming the cancellous or trabecular bone. The spaces enclosed by these thin trabeculae are also filled with hematopoietic bone marrow and are continuous with the diaphyseal medullary cavity. The outer cortical bone surfaces at the epiphyses are covered with a layer of articular cartilage that does not calcify. Bone is consequently in contact with the soft tissues along two surfaces: an external surface (the periosteal surface) and an internal surface (the endosteal surface). These surfaces are
