Anatomy and Ultrastructure of Bone – Histogenesis, Growth and Remodeling
KEYWORDS: bone, matrix, cells, cell, osteoclast, formation, resorption, growth, osteoblasts, remodeling, surface, bone matrix, bone formation, osteoblast, collagen


not calcify. Bone is consequently in contact with the soft tissues along two surfaces: an external surface (the periosteal surface) and an internal surface (the endosteal surface). These surfaces are lined with osteogenic cells along the periosteum and the endosteum, respectively. Cortical and trabecular bone are made up of the same cells and the same matrix elements, but there are structural and functional differences. The primary structural difference is quantitative: 80% to 90% of the volume of compact bone is calcified, whereas only 15% to 25% of the trabecular volume is calcified (the remainder being occupied by bone marrow, blood vessels, and connective tissue). The result is that 70% to 85% of the interface with soft tissues is at the endosteal bone surface, including all trabecular surfaces, leading to the functional difference: the cortical bone fulfills mainly a mechanical and protective function and the trabecular bone mainly a metabolic function, albeit trabeculae definitively participate in the biomechanical function of bones, particularly in bones like the vertebrae. Recently, more attention has been given to cortical bone structure since cortical porosity is intimately linked to the remodeling process as well as to bone strength. Indeed, an increase in cortical porosity is associated with an increase in fragility fractures ( 3 ). BONE AS A TISSUE: BONE MATRIX AND MINERAL Bone matrix consists mainly of type I collagen fibers (approximately 90%) and non-collagenous proteins. Within lamellar bone, the fibers are forming arches for optimal bone strength. This fiber organization allows the highest density of collagen per unit volume of tissue. The lamellae can be parallel to each other if deposited along a flat surface (trabecular bone and periosteum), or concentric if deposited on a surface surrounding a channel centered on a blood vessel (cortical bone Haversian system). Spindle- or plate-shaped crystals of hydroxyapatite [3Ca 3 (PO 4 ) 2 ·(OH) 2 ] are found on the collagen fibers, within them, and in the matrix around. They tend to be oriented in the same direction as the collagen fibers. When bone is formed very rapidly during development and fracture healing, or in tumors and some metabolic bone diseases, there is no preferential organization of the collagen fibers. They are then not as tightly packed and found in somewhat randomly oriented bundles: this type of bone is called woven bone, as opposed to lamellar bone. Woven bone is characterized by irregular bundles of collagen fibers,
