Anatomy and Ultrastructure of Bone – Histogenesis, Growth and Remodeling
KEYWORDS: bone, matrix, cells, cell, osteoclast, formation, resorption, growth, osteoblasts, remodeling, surface, bone matrix, bone formation, osteoblast, collagen


and found in somewhat randomly oriented bundles: this type of bone is called woven bone, as opposed to lamellar bone. Woven bone is characterized by irregular bundles of collagen fibers, large and numerous osteocytes, and delayed, disorderly calcification which occurs in irregularly distributed patches. Woven bone is progressively replaced by mature lamellar bone during the remodeling process that follows normally development or healing (see below). Numerous non-collagenous proteins present in bone matrix have been purified and sequenced, but their role has been only partially characterized ( Table 1 ) ( 4 ). Most non-collagenous proteins within the bone matrix are synthesized by osteoblasts, but not all: approximately a quarter of the bone non-collagenous proteins are plasma proteins which are preferentially absorbed by the bone matrix, such as a 2-HS-glycoprotein, which is synthesized in the liver. The major non-collagenous protein produced is osteocalcin, which makes up 1% of the matrix, and may play a role in calcium binding and stabilization of hydroxyapatite in the matrix and/or regulation of bone formation, as suggested by increased bone mass in osteocalcin knockout mice. Another negative regulator of bone formation found in the matrix is matrix gla protein, which appears to inhibit premature or inappropriate mineralization, as demonstrated in a knockout mouse model. In contrast to this, biglycan, a proteoglycan, is expressed in the bone matrix, and positively regulates bone formation, as demonstrated by reduced bone formation and bone mass in biglycan knockout mice. Osteocalcin has recently been shown to have an important endocrine function acting on the pancreatic beta cell. Its hormonally active form (undercarboxylated osteocalcin, stimulates insulin secretion and enhances insulin sensitivity in adipose tissues and muscle, improving glucose utilization in peripheral tissues ( 2 ). Table 1. Non-collagenous Proteins in Bone ( 4 ) View in own window PROTEIN MW ROLE Osteonectin (SPARC) 32K Calcium, apatite and matrix protein binding Modulates cell attachment α-2-HS-Glycoprotein 46-67K Chemotactic for monocytes Mineralization via matrix vesicles Osteocalcin (Bone GLA protein) 6K Involved in stabilization of hydroxyapatite Binding of calcium Chemotactic for monocytes Regulation of bone formation Matrix-GLA-protein 9K Inhibits matrix mineralization Osteopontin (Bone Sialoprotein I) 50K Cell attachment (via RGD sequence) Calcium binding Bone Sialoprotein II 75K Cell attachment (via RGD sequence) Calcium binding 24K Phosphoprotein (α-1(I) procollagen N-propeptide) 24K Residue from collagen processing Biglycan (Proteoglycan I) 45K core Regulation of collagen fiber growth Mineralization and bone formation Growth factor binding Decorin (Proteoglycan II) 36K core
