Anatomy and Ultrastructure of Bone – Histogenesis, Growth and Remodeling
KEYWORDS: bone, matrix, cells, cell, osteoclast, formation, resorption, growth, osteoblasts, remodeling, surface, bone matrix, bone formation, osteoblast, collagen


(α-1(I) procollagen N-propeptide) 24K Residue from collagen processing Biglycan (Proteoglycan I) 45K core Regulation of collagen fiber growth Mineralization and bone formation Growth factor binding Decorin (Proteoglycan II) 36K core + side chains Collagen fibrillogenesis Growth factor binding Thrombospondin & Fibronectin Cell attachment (via RGD sequence) Growth factor binding Hydroxyapatite formation Others (including proteolipids Mineralization Growth Factors IGFI & IGFII TGFβ Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) Differentiation, proliferation and activity of osteoblasts Induction of bone and cartilage in osteogenesis and fracture repair CELLULAR ORGANIZATION WITHIN THE BONE MATRIX: OSTEOCYTES The calcified bone matrix is not metabolically inert, and cells (osteocytes) are found embedded deep within the bone in small lacunae ( Figure 1 ). All osteocytes are derived from bone forming cells (osteoblasts) which have been trapped in the bone matrix that they produced and which became calcified. Even though the metabolic activity of the osteoblast decreases dramatically once it is fully encased in bone matrix, now becoming an osteocyte, these cells still produce matrix proteins. Figure 1. Wnt signaling determines the cell fate of mesenchymal progenitor cells and regulates bone formation and resorption. The Wnt canonical pathway represses adipocyte differentiation and chondrocyte differentiation from progenitor cells, whereas it is required for the transition of chondrocytes to hypertrophy. In contrast, Wnt pathway activation promotes the osteoblast cell lineage by controlling proliferation, maturation, terminal differentiation, and bone formation. Differentiated osteoblasts and/or osteocytes produce Wnt inhibitors such as Dickkopf (Dkk1) and sclerostin (Sost) proteins as a negative feedback control of osteoblast differentiation and function. Wnt signaling also induces osteoblasts to produce more osteoprotegerin (OPG), increasing the ratio of OPG to receptor activator of NF-κB ligand (RANKL) to decrease osteoclast differentiation and bone resorption. Osteocyte morphology varies according to cell age and functional activity. A young osteocyte has most of the ultrastructural characteristics of the osteoblast from which it was derived, except that there has been a decrease in cell volume and in the importance of the organelles involved in protein synthesis (rough endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi). An older osteocyte, located deeper within the calcified bone, shows a further decrease in cell volume and organelles, and an accumulation of glycogen in the cytoplasm. These cells synthesize small amounts of new bone matrix at the surface of the osteocytic lacunae, which can subsequently calcify. Osteocytes express, in low levels, a number of osteoblast markers, including osteocalcin, osteopontin, osteonectin and the osteocyte marker E11. Osteocytes have numerous
