Anatomy and Ultrastructure of Bone – Histogenesis, Growth and Remodeling
KEYWORDS: bone, matrix, cells, cell, osteoclast, formation, resorption, growth, osteoblasts, remodeling, surface, bone matrix, bone formation, osteoblast, collagen


of the osteocytic lacunae, which can subsequently calcify. Osteocytes express, in low levels, a number of osteoblast markers, including osteocalcin, osteopontin, osteonectin and the osteocyte marker E11. Osteocytes have numerous long cell processes rich in microfilaments, which are in contact with cell processes from other osteocytes (there are frequent gap junctions), or with processes from the cells lining the bone surface (osteoblasts or flat lining cells). These processes are organized during the formation of the matrix and before its calcification; they form a network of thin canaliculi permeating the entire bone matrix. Osteocytic canaliculi are not distributed evenly around the cell, but are mainly directed toward the bone surface. Between the osteocyte's plasma membrane and the bone matrix itself is the periosteocytic space. This space exists both in the lacunae and in the canaliculi, and it is filled with extracellular fluid (ECF), the only source of nutrients, cytokines and hormones for the osteocyte. ECF flow through the canalicular network is altered during bone matrix compression and tension and is believed not only to allow exchanges with the extracellular fluids in the surrounding tissues but also to create shear forces that are directly involved in mechanosensing and regulation of bone remodeling. Current understanding of mechanotransduction is based upon the presence of a mechanosensing cilium at the level of the osteocyte’s cell body, capable of detecting the changes in fluid flow determined by mechanical loading of bone. In turn, the activation of the mechanosensing cilium may determine the local concentration of cytokines capable of regulating bone formation and/or bone resorption, such as RANKL, OPG or sclerostin (see below). Indeed, given the structure of the network and the location of osteocytes within lacunae where ECF flow can be detected, it is likely that osteocytes respond to bone tissue strain and influence bone remodeling activity by recruiting osteoclasts to sites where bone remodeling is required. Osteocyte cellular activity is increased after bone loading; studies in cell culture have demonstrated increased calcium influx and prostaglandin production by osteocytes after mechanical stimulation, but there is no direct evidence for osteocytes signaling to cells on the bone surface in response to bone strain or microdamage to date. Osteocytes can become apoptotic and their programmed cell death may be one of the critical signals for induction of bone remodeling. Ultimately, the fate of the osteocyte is to be phagocytosed and digested together with the other components of bone
