Anatomy and Ultrastructure of Bone – Histogenesis, Growth and Remodeling
KEYWORDS: bone, matrix, cells, cell, osteoclast, formation, resorption, growth, osteoblasts, remodeling, surface, bone matrix, bone formation, osteoblast, collagen


be one of the critical signals for induction of bone remodeling. Ultimately, the fate of the osteocyte is to be phagocytosed and digested together with the other components of bone during osteoclastic bone resorption. The recent ability to isolate and culture osteocytes, as well as the creation of immortalized osteocytic cell lines now allows the study of these cells at the molecular level and this is expected to significantly further our understanding of their role in bone biology and disease.( 5 ) In particular, the discoveries that osteocytes can secrete the Wnt antagonist sclerostin and that this secretion is inhibited both by PTH treatment and by mechanical loading establishes the first direct link between biomechanics, endocrine hormones, bone formation and osteocytes. Similarly, osteocytes can secrete RANKL and OPG, contributing also to the regulation of bone resorption. Thus, osteocytes are emerging as the critical cell type linking mechanical forces in bone to the regulation of bone mass and shape through remodeling. THE OSTEOBLAST AND BONE FORMATION The osteoblast is the bone lining cell responsible for the production of the bone matrix constituents, collagen and non-collagenous proteins ( Figure 2 ). Osteoblasts never appear or function individually but are always found in clusters of cuboidal cells along the bone surface (~100–400 cells per bone-forming site). Figure 2. Osteocyte. Electron micrograph of an osteocyte within a lacuna in calcified bone matrix. The cell has a basal nucleus, cytoplasmic extensions, and well-developed Golgi and endoplasmic reticulum. Osteoblasts do not operate in isolation and gap junctions are often found between osteoblasts working together on the bone surface. Osteoblasts also appear to communicate with the osteocyte network within the bone matrix (see above), since cytoplasmic processes on the secreting side of the osteoblast extend deep into the osteoid matrix and are in contact with processes of the osteocytes dwelling there. At the light microscope level, the osteoblast is characterized morphologically by a round nucleus at the base of the cell (away from the bone surface), an intensely basophilic cytoplasm, and a prominent Golgi complex located between the nucleus and the apex of the cell. Osteoblasts are always found lining the layer of bone matrix that they are producing, but before it is calcified (osteoid tissue). Osteoid tissue exists because of a time lag of approximately 10 days between matrix formation and its subsequent calcification. Behind the osteoblast can usually be found one or two layers of
