Anatomy and Ultrastructure of Bone – Histogenesis, Growth and Remodeling
KEYWORDS: bone, matrix, cells, cell, osteoclast, formation, resorption, growth, osteoblasts, remodeling, surface, bone matrix, bone formation, osteoblast, collagen


tissue exists because of a time lag of approximately 10 days between matrix formation and its subsequent calcification. Behind the osteoblast can usually be found one or two layers of cells: activated mesenchymal cells and preosteoblasts (see below). A mature osteoblast does not divide. At the ultrastructural level, the osteoblast is characterized by the presence of a well-developed rough endoplasmic reticulum with dilated cisternae and a dense granular content, and the presence of a large circular Golgi complex comprising multiple Golgi stacks. These organelles are involved in the major activity of the osteoblast: the production and secretion of collagenous and non-collagenous bone matrix proteins, including type I collagen. Osteoblasts also produce a range of growth factors under a variety of stimuli, including the insulin-like growth factors (IGFs), platelet-derived growth factors (PDGFs), basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), transforming growth factor-beta (TGFβ), a range of cytokines, the bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs and Wnts.( 3 ) Osteoblast activity is regulated in an autocrine and paracrine manner by these growth factors, whose receptors can be found on osteoblasts, as well as receptors for a range of endocrine hormones. Classic endocrine receptors include receptors for parathyroid hormone/ parathyroid hormone related protein receptor, thyroid hormone, growth hormone, insulin, progesterone and prolactin. Osteoblastic nuclear steroid hormone receptors include receptors for estrogens, androgens, vitamin D 3 and retinoids. Receptors for paracrine and autocrine effectors include those for epidermal growth factor (EGF), IGFs, PDGF, TGFβ, interleukins, FGFs, BMPs and Wnts (LRP5/6 and Frizzled) ( 6 , 7 ) Osteoblasts also have receptors for several adhesion molecules (integrins) involved in cell attachment to the bone surface. Among the cytokines secreted by the osteoblast are the main regulators of osteoclast differentiation, i.e. M-CSF, RANKL and osteoprotegerin (OPG) ( 8 , 9 ). M-CSF is essential in inducing the commitment of monocytes to the osteoclast lineage whereas RANKL promotes the differentiation and activity of osteoclasts (see below). Osteoblasts originate from local pluripotent mesenchymal stem cells, either bone marrow stromal stem cells (endosteum) or connective tissue mesenchymal stem cells (periosteum). These precursors, with the right stimulation, undergo proliferation and differentiate into preosteoblasts, at which point they are committed to differentiate into mature osteoblasts. The committed preosteoblast is located in apposition to the bone surface, and usually present in layers below active mature osteoblasts. They are elliptical cells, with an elongated nucleus, and are still capable of proliferation. Preosteoblasts lack the well-developed protein synthesizing
