Anatomy and Ultrastructure of Bone – Histogenesis, Growth and Remodeling
KEYWORDS: bone, matrix, cells, cell, osteoclast, formation, resorption, growth, osteoblasts, remodeling, surface, bone matrix, bone formation, osteoblast, collagen


surface, and usually present in layers below active mature osteoblasts. They are elliptical cells, with an elongated nucleus, and are still capable of proliferation. Preosteoblasts lack the well-developed protein synthesizing capability of the mature osteoblast, and do not have the characteristically localized, mature rough endoplasmic reticulum or Golgi apparatus of the mature cell. The development of the osteoblast phenotype is gradual, with a defined sequence of gene expression and cell activity during development and maturation, controlled by a sequence of transcription factors and cytokines ( Figure 3 ). Figure 3. Osteoblasts and Osteoid Tissue. A: Light micrograph of a group of osteoblasts producing osteoid; note the newly embedded osteocyte. B: Electron micrograph of 3 osteoblasts covering a layer of mineralizing osteoid tissue. Note the prominent Golgi and endoplasmic reticulum characteristic of active osteoblasts. The black clusters in the osteoid tissue are deposits of mineral. C: Osteoblast Lineage. Osteoblasts originate from undifferentiated mesenchymal cells which are capable of proliferation and which may differentiate into one of a range of cell types. The preosteoblast is also capable of proliferation and may be already committed to an osteoblast phenotype. The mature osteoblast no longer proliferates, but can differentiate further into an osteocyte once embedded in the bone matrix, or to a lining cell on the bone surface. Two transcription factors, Runx2 and Osterix (Osx), which is downstream of Runx2, are absolutely required for osteoblast differentiation. Runx2 is expressed in mesenchymal condensations and chondrocytes, in addition to osteoblasts. Runx2 target genes include several genes expressed by the mature osteoblast including osteocalcin, bone sialoprotein, osteopontin and collagen a1(I), as well as the Runx2 gene itself. Osx may be mostly important for pushing precursors cells away from the chondrocyte and into the osteoblast lineage. The most important breakthrough in the understanding of the regulation of bone formation in recent years, is the finding of a clear link between LRP5, a co-receptor for Wnts, and bone mass in humans and in mice. Loss of function in LRP5 leads to the Osteoporosis Pseudo-Glioma syndrome (OPPG), with extremely low bone mass, whereas gain of function leads to the High Bone Mass (HBM) phenotype in humans. In addition, deletion mutations in the gene encoding sclerostin (Sost), another endogenous inhibitor of the Wnt pathway, also lead to osteosclerotic phenotypes (Sclerosteosis, Van Buchem syndrome).( 7 ) These findings have opened a whole new field of investigation both in terms of understanding the
