Anatomy and Ultrastructure of Bone – Histogenesis, Growth and Remodeling
KEYWORDS: bone, matrix, cells, cell, osteoclast, formation, resorption, growth, osteoblasts, remodeling, surface, bone matrix, bone formation, osteoblast, collagen


the Wnt pathway, also lead to osteosclerotic phenotypes (Sclerosteosis, Van Buchem syndrome).( 7 ) These findings have opened a whole new field of investigation both in terms of understanding the mechanism that regulate osteoblasts and their bone-matrix secreting activity and in terms of drug discovery in the hope to target one component of the Wnt signaling pathway and thereby increase bone mass in osteoporotic patients. Of note, in 2019, the FDA approved romosozumab, a monoclonal antibody to sclerostin, for the treatment of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis at high risk for fracture. Toward the end of the matrix secreting period, a further step is involved in osteoblast maturation. Approximately 15% of the mature osteoblasts become encapsulated in the new bone matrix and differentiate into osteocytes. In contrast, some cells remain on the bone surface, becoming flat lining cells. Mechanism of Bone Formation Bone formation occurs by three coordinated processes: the production of osteoid matrix, its maturation, and the subsequent mineralization of the matrix. In normal adult bone, these processes occur at the same rate, so that the balance between matrix production and mineralization is equal. Initially, osteoblasts deposit collagen rapidly, without mineralization, producing a thickening osteoid seam. This is followed by an increase in the mineralization rate to equal the rate of collagen synthesis. In the final stage, the rate of collagen synthesis decreases, and mineralization continues until the osteoid seam is fully mineralized. This time lag (termed the mineralization lag time or osteoid maturation period) appears to be required for osteoid to be modified so it is able to support mineralization. While this delay is not yet understood, it is likely that either collagen cross-linking occurs or an inhibitor of mineralization, such as matrix gla protein, is removed during this time, thus allowing mineralization to proceed. To initiate mineralization in woven bone, or in growth plate cartilage, high local concentrations of Ca 2+ and PO 4 3- ions must be reached in order to induce their precipitation into amorphous calcium phosphate, leading to hydroxyapatite crystal formation. This is achieved by membrane-bound matrix vesicles, which originate by budding from the cytoplasmic processes of the chondrocyte or the osteoblast and are deposited within the matrix during its formation. In the matrix, these vesicles are the first structure wherein hydroxyapatite crystals are observed. The membranes are very rich in alkaline phosphatases and in acidic phospholipids, which hydrolyze inhibitors of calcification in the matrix
