Anatomy and Ultrastructure of Bone – Histogenesis, Growth and Remodeling
KEYWORDS: bone, matrix, cells, cell, osteoclast, formation, resorption, growth, osteoblasts, remodeling, surface, bone matrix, bone formation, osteoblast, collagen


vesicles are the first structure wherein hydroxyapatite crystals are observed. The membranes are very rich in alkaline phosphatases and in acidic phospholipids, which hydrolyze inhibitors of calcification in the matrix including pyrophosphate and ATP allowing condensation of apatite crystals. Once the crystals are in the matrix environment, they will grow in clusters which later coalesce to completely calcify the matrix, filling the spaces between and within the collagen fibers. In adult lamellar bone, matrix vesicles are not present, and mineralization occurs in an orderly manner through progression of the mineralization front into the osteoid tissue. THE OSTEOCLAST AND BONE RESORPTION The osteoclast is the bone lining cell responsible for bone resorption ( Figure 4 ). The osteoclast is a giant multinucleated cell, up to 100mm in diameter and containing four to 20 nuclei. It is usually found in contact with a calcified bone surface and within a lacuna (Howship's lacunae) that is the result of its own resorptive activity. It is possible to find up to four or five osteoclasts in the same resorptive site, but there are usually only one or two. Under the light microscope, the nuclei appear to vary within the same cell: some are round and euchromatic, and some are irregular in contour and heterochromatic, possibly reflecting asynchronous fusion of mononuclear precursors. The cytoplasm is "foamy" with many vacuoles. The zone of contact with the bone is characterized by the presence of a ruffled border with dense patches on each side (the sealing zone). Figure 4. Osteoclasts and the Mechanism of Bone Resorption. A: Light micrograph and B: electron micrograph of an osteoclast, demonstrating the ruffled border and numerous nuclei. C: Osteoclastic resorption. The osteoclast forms a sealing zone via integrin mediated attachment to specific peptide sequences within the bone matrix, forming a sealed compartment between the cell and the bone surface. This compartment is acidified such that an optimal pH is reached for lysosomal enzyme activity and bone resorption. Characteristic ultrastructural features of this cell are abundant Golgi complexes around each nucleus, mitochondria, and transport vesicles loaded with lysosomal enzymes. The most prominent features of the osteoclast are, however, the deep foldings of the plasma membrane in the area facing the bone matrix (ruffled border) and the surrounding zone of attachment (sealing zone). The sealing zone is formed by a ring of focal points of adhesion (podosomes) with a core of actin and several cytoskeletal
