Anatomy and Ultrastructure of Bone – Histogenesis, Growth and Remodeling
KEYWORDS: bone, matrix, cells, cell, osteoclast, formation, resorption, growth, osteoblasts, remodeling, surface, bone matrix, bone formation, osteoblast, collagen


and the surrounding zone of attachment (sealing zone). The sealing zone is formed by a ring of focal points of adhesion (podosomes) with a core of actin and several cytoskeletal and regulatory proteins around it, that attach the cell to the bone surface, thus sealing off the subosteoclastic bone-resorbing compartment. The attachment of the cell to the matrix is performed via integrin receptors, which bind to specific RGD (Arginine-Glycine-Aspartate) sequences found in matrix proteins (see Table 1 ). The plasma membrane in the ruffled border area contains proteins that are also found at the limiting membrane of lysosomes and related organelles, and a specific type of electrogenic vacuolar proton ATPase involved in acidification. The basolateral plasma membrane of the osteoclast is specifically enriched in Na+, K+-ATPase (sodium pumps), HCO 3 - /Cl - exchangers, and Na+/H+ exchangers and numerous ion channels ( 10 ). Lysosomal enzymes such as tartrate resistant acid phosphatase and cathepsin K are actively synthesized by the osteoclast and are found in the endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi, and many transport vesicles. The enzymes are secreted, via the ruffled border, into the extracellular bone-resorbing compartment where they reach a sufficiently high extracellular concentration because this compartment is sealed off. The transport and targeting of these enzymes for secretion at the apical pole of the osteoclast involves mannose-6-phosphate receptors. Furthermore, the cell secretes several metalloproteinases such as collagenase (MMP-13) and gelatinase B (MMP-9) which appear to be involved in preosteoclast migration to the bone surface as well as bone matrix digestion. Among the key enzymes being synthesized and secreted by the osteoclast is cathepsin K, an enzyme capable or degrading collagen at low pH and a target for inhibition of bone resorption. ( 11 ) Attachment of the osteoclast to the bone surface is essential for bone resorption. This process involves transmembrane adhesion receptors of the integrin. Integrins attach to specific amino acid sequences (mostly RGD sequences) within proteins in or at the surface of the bone matrix. In the osteoclast, αvβ3 (vitronectin receptor), α2β1 (collagen receptor) and αvβ5 integrins are predominantly expressed. Without cell attachment the acidified microenvironment cannot be established and the osteoclast cannot be highly mobile, a functional property associated with the formation of podosomes. After osteoclast adhesion to the bone matrix, αvβ3 binding activates cytoskeletal reorganization within the osteoclast, including cell spreading and polarization. In most cells, cell attachment occurs via focal adhesions, where stress fibers
