Anatomy and Ultrastructure of Bone – Histogenesis, Growth and Remodeling
KEYWORDS: bone, matrix, cells, cell, osteoclast, formation, resorption, growth, osteoblasts, remodeling, surface, bone matrix, bone formation, osteoblast, collagen


adhesion to the bone matrix, αvβ3 binding activates cytoskeletal reorganization within the osteoclast, including cell spreading and polarization. In most cells, cell attachment occurs via focal adhesions, where stress fibers (bundles of microfilaments) anchor the cell to the substrate. In osteoclasts, attachment occurs via podosomes. Podosomes are more dynamic structures than focal adhesions, and occur in cells that are highly motile. It is the continual assembly and disassembly of podosomes that allows osteoclast movement across the bone surface during bone resorption. Integrin signaling and subsequent podosome formation is dependent on a number of adhesion kinases including the proto-oncogene src, which, while not required for osteoclast maturation, is required for osteoclast function, as demonstrated by osteopetrosis in the src knockout mouse. Pyk2, another member of the focal adhesion kinase family is also activated by αvβ3 during osteoclast attachment, and is required for bone resorption.( 10 ) Several actin-regulatory proteins have also been shown to be present in podosomes and required for bone resorption, again pointing to the importance of integrin signaling and podosome assembly and disassembly in the function of osteoclasts. ( 12 ) Osteoclasts resorb bone by acidification and proteolysis of the bone matrix and hydroxyapatite crystals encapsulated within the sealing zone. Carbonic anhydrase type II produces hydrogen ions within the cell, which are then pumped across the ruffled border membrane via proton pumps located in the basolateral membrane, thereby acidifying the extracellular compartment. The protons are highly concentrated in the cytosol of the osteoclast; ATP and CO 2 are provided by the mitochondria. The basolateral membrane activity exchanges bicarbonate for chloride, thereby avoiding alkalization of the cytosol. K+ channels in the basolateral domain and Cl - channels in the apical ruffled border ensure dissipation of the electrogenic gradients generated by the vacuolar H+-ATPase The basolateral sodium pumps might be involved in secondary active transport of calcium and/or protons in association with a Na + /Ca 2+ exchanger and/or a Na+/H+ antiport. Genetic mutations in several of these components of the acidification and ion transport systems have been shown to be associated with osteopetrosis (defective bone resorption by osteoclasts) in humans and in mice. The first process during bone matrix resorption is mobilization of the hydroxyapatite crystals by digestion of their link to collagen via the non-collagenous proteins and the low pH dissolves the hydroxyapatite crystals, exposing the bone matrix. Then the residual collagen fibers are digested by cathepsin K,
