Anatomy and Ultrastructure of Bone – Histogenesis, Growth and Remodeling
KEYWORDS: bone, matrix, cells, cell, osteoclast, formation, resorption, growth, osteoblasts, remodeling, surface, bone matrix, bone formation, osteoblast, collagen


their link to collagen via the non-collagenous proteins and the low pH dissolves the hydroxyapatite crystals, exposing the bone matrix. Then the residual collagen fibers are digested by cathepsin K, now at optimal pH. The residues from this extracellular digestion are either internalized, or transported across the cell and released at the basolateral domain. Residues may also be released during periods of sealing zone relapse, as probably occurs during osteoclast motility, and possibly induced by a calcium sensor responding to the rise of extracellular calcium in the bone-resorbing compartment. The regulation of bone resorption is mostly mediated by the action of hormones on stromal cells, osteoblasts and osteocytes. For example, PTH can stimulate osteoblastic production of M-CSF, RANKL, OPG or IL-6, which then act directly on the osteoclast ( 5 , 6 ). Origin and Fate of the Osteoclast ( 6 ) The osteoclast derives from cells in the mononuclear phagocyte lineage ( Figure 5 ). Their differentiation requires the transcription factors PU-1 and MiTf at early stages, committing the precursors into the myeloid lineage. M-CSF is then required to engage the cells in the monocyte lineage and ensure their proliferation and the expression of the RANK receptor. At that stage, the cells require the presence of RANKL, a member of the TNF family of cytokines produced by stromal cells, to truly commit to the osteoclast lineage and progress in their differentiation program. This step also requires expression of TRAF6, NFκB, c-Fos and NFAT c1, all downstream effectors of RANK signaling. Although this differentiation occurs at the early promonocyte stage, monocytes and macrophages already committed to their own lineage might still be able to form osteoclasts under the right stimuli. Despite its mononuclear phagocytic origin, the osteoclast membrane express distinct markers: it is devoid of Fc and C 3 receptors, as well as of several other macrophage markers; like mononuclear phagocytes, however, the osteoclast is rich in nonspecific esterases, synthesizes lysozyme, and expresses CSF-1 receptors. Monoclonal antibodies have been produced that recognize osteoclasts but not macrophages. The osteoclast, unlike macrophages, also expresses, millions of copies of the RANK, calcitonin, and vitronectin (integrin αvβ3) receptors. Whether it expresses receptors for parathyroid hormone, estrogen, or vitamin D is still controversial. Dendritic cell-specific transmembrane protein (DC-STAMP) is currently considered to be the master regulator of osteoclastogenesis. Knock out of DC-STAMP completely abrogates cell-cell fusion during osteoclastogenesis; osteoclasts isolated from DC-STAMP knock-out mice are
