Anatomy and Ultrastructure of Bone – Histogenesis, Growth and Remodeling
KEYWORDS: bone, matrix, cells, cell, osteoclast, formation, resorption, growth, osteoblasts, remodeling, surface, bone matrix, bone formation, osteoblast, collagen


transmembrane protein (DC-STAMP) is currently considered to be the master regulator of osteoclastogenesis. Knock out of DC-STAMP completely abrogates cell-cell fusion during osteoclastogenesis; osteoclasts isolated from DC-STAMP knock-out mice are mononucleated. ( 13 ) Another important factor involved in cell fusion is Pin 1, an enzyme that specifically recognizes the peptide bond between phosphorylated serine or threonine and proline. Pin 1 regulates cell fusion during osteoclastogeneis by suppressing DC-STAMP. ( 14 , 15 ) Recent evidence suggest that the osteoclast undergoes apoptosis after a cycle of resorption, a process favored by estrogens, possibly explaining the increased bone resorption after gonadectomy or menopause. Figure 5. Osteoclast Life Cycle. The osteoclast is derived from a mononuclear hematopoietic precursor cell which, upon activation, fuses with other precursors to form a multinucleated osteoclast. The osteoclast first attaches to the bone surface then commences resorption. After a cycle of bone resorption, the osteoclast undergoes apoptosis. Relations to the Immune System (Osteoimmunology) In the last few years it has been recognized that, in part due to the link between the osteoclast, macrophages and dendritic cells (all three belong to the same cell lineage), osteoclasts are regulated by and share regulatory mechanisms with cells of the immune system. For instance, T cells can produce locally RANKL, activating osteoclastogenesis. B cells may share a common precursor with and regulate osteoclast precursors. RANKL signaling and “immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif” (ITAM) signals cooperate in osteoclastogenesis ( 16 ). BONE REMODELING Bone remodeling is the process by which bone is turned over; it is the result of the activity of the bone cells at the surfaces of bone, mainly the endosteal surface (which includes all trabecular surfaces). Remodeling is traditionally classified into two distinct types: Haversian remodeling within the cortical bone and endosteal remodeling along the trabecular bone surface. This distinction is more morphological than physiological because the Haversian surface is an extension of the endosteal surface and the cellular events during these two remodeling processes follow exactly the same sequence. The Remodeling Sequence Bone formation and bone resorption do not occur along the bone surface at random: they are coordinated as part of the turnover mechanism by which old bone is replaced by new bone, providing an opportunity to change the shape, architecture or density of the skeleton. In the normal adult skeleton, bone formation only occurs, for the most part, where bone resorption has already occurred. This basic principle
