Anatomy and Ultrastructure of Bone – Histogenesis, Growth and Remodeling
KEYWORDS: bone, matrix, cells, cell, osteoclast, formation, resorption, growth, osteoblasts, remodeling, surface, bone matrix, bone formation, osteoblast, collagen


the shape, architecture or density of the skeleton. In the normal adult skeleton, bone formation only occurs, for the most part, where bone resorption has already occurred. This basic principle of cellular activity at the remodeling site constitutes the Activation-Resorption-Reversal-Formation (ARRF) sequence ( Figure 6 ). Figure 6. The Bone Remodeling Sequence. The Activation-Resorption-Reversal-Formation cycle of bone remodeling as it occurs in trabecular bone. See text for details. Under some signal, today considered to emanate from osteocytes, a locally acting factor released by lining cells, osteocytes, marrow cells, or in response to bone deformation or fatigue-related microfracture, a group of preosteoclasts are activated. These mononuclear cells attach to the bone via αvβ3 integrins and fuse to form a multi-nucleated osteoclast which will, in a definite area of the bone surface, resorb the bone matrix. After resorption of the bone, and osteoclast detachment, uncharacterized mononuclear cells cover the surface and a cement line is formed. The cement line marks the limit of bone resorption, and acts to cement together the old and the new bone. This is termed the reversal phase, and is followed by a period of bone formation. Preosteoblasts are activated, proliferate and differentiate into osteoblasts, which move onto the bone surface, forming an initial matrix (osteoid), which becomes mineralized after a time lag (the osteoid maturation period). The basic remodeling sequence is therefore Activation-Resorption-Formation; it is performed by a group of cells called the Basic Multicellular Unit (BMU). The complete remodeling cycle takes about 3 months in humans ( Figure 7 ). Figure 7. Bone Growth and Remodeling at the Growth Plate. The light micrograph demonstrates the zones of chondrocyte differentiation, as well as mineralization (black). The schematic representation shows the cellular events occurring at the growth plate in long bones. Note that bone formation in this process occurs by repeated Activation-Resorption-Formation cycles of bone remodeling beginning with the calcified cartilage matrix. For decades, the reversal phase of the remodeling cycle was the least well understood. It was recognized that during this phase, the resorption cavity was occupied by mononucleated cells, but the nature of these cells was unknown ( 17 ). Recent work by Delaisse and colleagues ( 18 ) has definitively identified the reversal cells as belonging to the osteogenic lineage, expressing classic osteoblast markers: Runx2, ALP, and Col3. By applying immunocytochemistry and histomorphometry to femur and fibula samples harvested from teenagers and adults, these investigators
