Anatomy and Ultrastructure of Bone – Histogenesis, Growth and Remodeling
KEYWORDS: bone, matrix, cells, cell, osteoclast, formation, resorption, growth, osteoblasts, remodeling, surface, bone matrix, bone formation, osteoblast, collagen


belonging to the osteogenic lineage, expressing classic osteoblast markers: Runx2, ALP, and Col3. By applying immunocytochemistry and histomorphometry to femur and fibula samples harvested from teenagers and adults, these investigators have provided a much more complete picture of the temporal sequence of cellular events that occur between the start of resorption and the onset of formation. In order to visualize the entire sequence of events, they analyzed longitudinal sections of evolving Haversian systems. They observed osteoclasts at two distinct locations: at the cutting cone (referred to as primary osteoclasts) and close to the reversal cells (referred to as secondary osteoclasts). The presence of secondary osteoclasts in the reversal phase suggests that bone resorption continues during this phase, which has been renamed the resorption-reversal phase. The authors have concluded that the primary osteoclasts are responsible for drilling the tunnel (initial resorption) and the secondary osteoclasts work to increase its diameter by radial resorption. This radial resorption was shown to be a major contributor to the overall amount of bone resorbed in each BMU. This new and more complete model of the resorption-reversal phase will lead to enhanced understanding of the delicate and all-important balance between resorption and formation ( Figure 8 ). Figure 8. Cartoon of a bone remodeling unit in cortical bone, showing the change in the designation of the reversal phase as a result of recent new findings. IR = initial resorption; RR = radial resorption; Og = osteoprogenitor cell; Oc = osteoclast. ( 17 ) For many years it has been accepted that bone resorption and formation are coupled in the same way that bone matrix formation and calcification are linked. In other words, in the normal adult skeleton, the coupling of bone resorption and formation in remodeling results in equal levels of cellular activity so that bone turnover is balanced: the volume of bone resorbed is equal to the volume formed. This paradigm implies that, for example, a reduction in osteoblast activity would affect a similar reduction in osteoclast activity such that bone volume is maintained. Conversely, an increase in osteoclast activity should be compensated by an increase in osteoblasts and bone formation, resulting in a maintained bone mass with a high turnover, as in hyperparathyroidism for instance. Similarly, decreased osteoclast numbers or bone resorption activity should be associated with a decrease in bone formation, maintaining bone mass but with a decreased turnover rate. Although this “coupling”
