Anatomy and Ultrastructure of Bone – Histogenesis, Growth and Remodeling
KEYWORDS: bone, matrix, cells, cell, osteoclast, formation, resorption, growth, osteoblasts, remodeling, surface, bone matrix, bone formation, osteoblast, collagen


instance. Similarly, decreased osteoclast numbers or bone resorption activity should be associated with a decrease in bone formation, maintaining bone mass but with a decreased turnover rate. Although this “coupling” may indeed function in most cases, there are multiple examples of dysfunctions, such as in osteoporosis or osteopetrosis for instance. It now appears that the number of osteoclasts rather than their strict activity is a key determinant of subsequent bone formation. This suggests that factors generated locally by the osteoclast, either directly or through resorption of the bone matrix, are capable of stimulating bone formation ( 19 ). Haversian vs Endosteal Bone Remodeling As previously mentioned, although cortical bone is anatomically different to trabecular bone, its remodeling occurs following the same sequence of events. The major difference is that while the average thickness of a trabecula is 150-200 microns, the average thickness of the cortex is of the order of 1-10 mm. There are no blood vessels in the trabeculae but the bone envelope system and the osteocyte network are able to carry out enough gaseous exchange, being always relatively close to the surface and the highly vascularized marrow. Consequently, bone remodeling in the trabecular bone will take place along the trabecular surface. On the other hand, the cortical bone itself needs to be vascularized. Blood vessels are first embedded during the histogenesis of cortical bone; the blood vessel and the bone which surrounds it is then called a primary osteon. Later, cortical bone remodeling will be initiated either along the surface of these vascular channels, or from the endosteal surface of the cortex. The remodeling process in cortical bone also follows the ARF sequence. Osteoclasts excavate a tunnel, creating a cutting cone. Again, there is a reversal phase, where mononuclear cells attach and lay down a cement line. Osteoblasts are then responsible for closing the cone, leaving a central canal, centered on blood vessels and surrounded by concentric bone lamellae. For mechanical reasons, all these Haversian systems are oriented along the longitudinal axis of the bone. Bone Turnover and Skeletal Homeostasis In a normal young adult, about 30% of the total skeletal mass is renewed every year (half-life = 20 months). In each remodeling unit, osteoclastic bone resorption lasts about 3 days, the reversal 14 days, and bone formation 70 days (total = 87 days). The linear bone formation rate is 0.5mm/day. During this process, about 0.01mm of bone
