Anatomy and Ultrastructure of Bone – Histogenesis, Growth and Remodeling
KEYWORDS: bone, matrix, cells, cell, osteoclast, formation, resorption, growth, osteoblasts, remodeling, surface, bone matrix, bone formation, osteoblast, collagen


about 3 days, the reversal 14 days, and bone formation 70 days (total = 87 days). The linear bone formation rate is 0.5mm/day. During this process, about 0.01mm of bone is renewed in one given remodeling unit. Theoretically, with balanced matrix deposition and calcification as well as a balance between osteoclast and osteoblast activity, the amount of bone formed in each remodeling unit (and therefore in the total skeleton) equals the amount of bone which was previously resorbed. Thus, the total skeletal mass remains constant. This skeletal homeostasis relies upon a normal remodeling activity. The rate of activation of new remodeling units would then determine only the turnover rate. SKELETAL DEVELOPMENT-HISTOGENESIS Bone development is achieved through the use of two distinct processes, intramembranous and endochondral bone formation. In the first, mesenchymal cells differentiate directly into osteoblasts whereas in the second mesenchymal cells differentiate into chondrocytes and it is only secondarily that osteoblasts appear and form bone around the cartilage model. Through a process that involves bone resorption by osteoclasts, vascular invasion and resorption of calcified cartilage, the cartilage model is progressively replaced by osteoblast-derived bone matrix. Bone is then remodeled through continuous cycles of bone resorption and formation, thereby allowing shape changes and adaptation to the local and systemic environment. Intramembranous Ossification During intramembranous ossification, a group of mesenchymal cells within a highly vascularized area of the embryonic connective tissue proliferates, forming early mesenchymal condensations within which cells differentiate directly into osteoblasts. Bone Morphogenetic Proteins, as well as FGFs appear to be essential in the process of mesenchymal cell condensation. The newly differentiated osteoblasts will synthesize a woven bone matrix, while at the periphery, mesenchymal cells continue to differentiate into osteoblasts. Blood vessels are incorporated between the woven bone trabeculae and will form the hematopoietic bone marrow. Later this woven bone will be remodeled through the classical remodeling process, resorbing woven bone and progressively replacing it with mature lamellar bone. Endochondral Ossification Development of long bones begins with the formation of a cartilage anlage (model) from a mesenchymal condensation, as in intramembranous ossification. ( Figure 9 ). But here, under the influence of a different set of factors and local conditions, mesenchymal cells undergo division and differentiate into prechondroblasts and then into chondroblasts rather than directly into osteoblasts. These cells secrete the cartilaginous matrix, where the predominant collagen type is collagen type II. Like osteoblasts, the chondroblasts become progressively embedded
