Anatomy and Ultrastructure of Bone – Histogenesis, Growth and Remodeling
KEYWORDS: bone, matrix, cells, cell, osteoclast, formation, resorption, growth, osteoblasts, remodeling, surface, bone matrix, bone formation, osteoblast, collagen


then into chondroblasts rather than directly into osteoblasts. These cells secrete the cartilaginous matrix, where the predominant collagen type is collagen type II. Like osteoblasts, the chondroblasts become progressively embedded within their own matrix, where they lie within lacunae, and they are then called chondrocytes. Unlike osteocytes however, chondrocytes continue to proliferate for some time, this being allowed in part by the gel-like consistency of cartilage. At the periphery of this cartilage (the perichondrium), the mesenchymal cells continue to proliferate and differentiate through appositional growth. Another type of growth is observed in the cartilage by cell proliferation and synthesis of new matrix between the chondrocytes (interstitial growth). Figure 9. Duration and depth of the phases of the normal cancellous bone remodeling sequence, calculated from histomorphometric analysis of bone biopsy samples from young individuals (Adapted from: Eriksen EF, Axelrod DW, Melsen F. Bone Histomorphometry. Raven Press, New York, pp13-20, 1994). Beginning in the center of the cartilage model, at what is to become the primary ossification center, chondrocytes continue to differentiate and become hypertrophic. During this process, hypertrophic cells deposit a mineralized matrix, where cartilage calcification is initiated by matrix vesicles. Once this matrix is calcified, it is partially resorbed by osteoclasts. After resorption and a reversal phase, osteoblasts differentiate in this area and form a layer of woven bone on top of the remaining cartilage. This woven bone will later be remodeled into lamellar bone. Chondrocyte differentiation is regulated by a number of factors which have recently been described. The first factor shown to control chondrocyte differentiation was parathyroid hormone related peptide (PTHrP) acting on PTH receptors mostly found in prehypertrophic chondrocytes. This factor prolongs chondrocyte proliferation, and in PTHrP knockout mice, the main phenotype is bone shortening caused by premature chondrocyte hypertrophy. Targeted overexpression of PTHrP results in the opposite phenotype, with prolonged delay in chondrocyte maturation. PTHrP is part of a genetic signaling cascade, where not only is it regulated by factors expressed earlier in chondrocyte differentiation, such as Indian hedgehog (Ihh), but it also regulates chondrocyte differentiation itself, and alters gene expression in more mature chondrocytes. Other factors which regulate chondrocyte differentiation include the FGFs and bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs). The transcription factors Runx2 and Sox9, together with the Wnt signaling pathway, control the commitment and differentiation within the chondrocytic lineage ( 20 ). The embryonic cartilage is avascular. During its early development, a ring of woven
