Anatomy and Ultrastructure of Bone – Histogenesis, Growth and Remodeling
KEYWORDS: bone, matrix, cells, cell, osteoclast, formation, resorption, growth, osteoblasts, remodeling, surface, bone matrix, bone formation, osteoblast, collagen


with the Wnt signaling pathway, control the commitment and differentiation within the chondrocytic lineage ( 20 ). The embryonic cartilage is avascular. During its early development, a ring of woven bone is formed, the bone collar, at the periphery by intramembranous ossification in the future midshaft area under the perichondrium (which becomes periosteum). Following calcification of this woven bone, blood vessels, preceded by osteoclasts enter the primary ossification center, penetrate the bone collar and the calcified cartilage, to form the blood supply and allow seeding of the hematopoietic bone marrow. The osteoclast invasion and its concomitant wave of resorbing activity leads to the removal of the calcified cartilage and its replacement by woven bone in the primary spongiosa, as described above. Secondary ossification centers begin to form at the epiphyseal ends of the cartilaginous model, and by a similar process, trabecular bone and a marrow space are formed. Between the primary and secondary ossification centers, epiphyseal cartilage (growth plates) remain until adulthood. The continued differentiation of chondrocytes, cartilage mineralization and subsequent remodeling cycles allow longitudinal bone growth to occur, such that as new bone is formed the bone will reach its final adult shape. There is, however, a progressive decrease in chondrocyte proliferation so that the growth plate becomes progressively thinner, allowing mineralization and resorption to catch up. It is at this point that the growth plates are completely remodeled and longitudinal growth is arrested. The growth plate demonstrates, from the epiphyseal area to the diaphyseal area, the different stages of chondrocyte differentiation involved in endochondral bone formation ( Figure 10 ). Firstly, a proliferative zone, where the chondroblasts divide actively, forming isogenous groups, and actively synthesizing the matrix. These cells become progressively larger, enlarging their lacunae in the pre-hypertrophic and hypertrophic zones. Lower in this area, the matrix of the longitudinal cartilage septa selectively calcifies (zone of provisional calcification). The chondrocytes become highly vacuolated and then die through programmed cell death (apoptosis). Once calcified, the cartilage matrix is resorbed, but only partially, by osteoclasts, leaving the calcified longitudinal septae and blood vessels appear in the zone of invasion. After resorption, osteoblasts differentiate and form a layer of woven bone on top of the cartilaginous remnants of the longitudinal septa. Thus, the first remodeling sequence is complete: the cartilage has been remodeled and replaced by woven bone. The resulting trabeculae are called the primary spongiosa. Still lower in the growth
