Anatomy and Ultrastructure of Bone – Histogenesis, Growth and Remodeling
KEYWORDS: bone, matrix, cells, cell, osteoclast, formation, resorption, growth, osteoblasts, remodeling, surface, bone matrix, bone formation, osteoblast, collagen


Thus, the first remodeling sequence is complete: the cartilage has been remodeled and replaced by woven bone. The resulting trabeculae are called the primary spongiosa. Still lower in the growth plate, this woven bone is subjected to further remodeling (a second ARF sequence) in which the woven bone and the cartilaginous remnants are replaced with lamellar bone, resulting in the mature trabecular bone called secondary spongiosum. Figure 10. Bone Development. Schematic diagram showing the initial stages of endochondral ossification. Bone development begins with mesenchymal condensation to form a cartilage model of the bone to be formed. Following chondrocyte hypertrophy and cartilage matrix mineralization, osteoclast activity and vascularization result in the formation of the primary, and then secondary ossification centers. In mature adult bones, the growth plate is fully resorbed, so that one marrow cavity extends the full length of the bone. See text for details. GROWTH IN BONE SHAPE AND DIAMETER (MODELING) During longitudinal growth, and due to the fact that the midshaft is narrower than the metaphysis, the growth of a long bone progressively destroys the lower part of the metaphysis and transforms it into a diaphysis, a process accomplished by continuous resorption by osteoclasts beneath the periosteum. In contrast, growth in the diameter of the metaphysis is the result of a deposition of new membranous bone beneath the periosteum that will continue throughout life. In this case, resorption does not immediately precede formation. Recently, more attention has been focusing on this type of bone formation inasmuch as periosteal bone formation seems to respond differently and/or independently from endosteal bone formation activity to different stimuli such as PTH or biomechanical loading. This is particularly important in the context of osteoporosis where it has been demonstrated that growth in diameter in the midshaft is a more important contributor to the decrease in the fracture risk than trabecular bone density and/or cortical thickness. REFERENCES 1. Fukumoto S, Martin TJ. Bone as an endocrine organ. Trends Endocrinol Metab. 2009 Jul; 20 (5):230–6. [ PubMed : 19546009 ] 2. Zanatta LC, Boguszewski CL, Borba VZ, Kulak CA. Osteocalcin, energy and glucose metabolism. Arq Bras Endocrinol Metabol. 2014 Jul; 58 (5):444–51. [ PubMed : 25166034 ] 3. Ahmed LA, Shigdel R, Joakimsen RM, Eldevik OP, Eriksen EF, Ghasem-Zadeh A, Bala Y, Zebaze R, Seeman E, Bjørnerem Å. Measurement of cortical porosity of the proximal femur improves identification of women with nonvertebral fragility fractures. Osteoporos
