HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, manuscript, author manuscript, gastrointestinal, disorders, manuscript author, receptor, motility, studies, phase, constipation, drugs, patients, colonic, treatment


HHS Public Access Author manuscript Expert Opin Investig Drugs. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2016 June 01. Published in final edited form as: Expert Opin Investig Drugs. 2015 June ; 24(6): 769–779. doi:. Early Investigational Therapeutics for Gastrointestinal Motility Disorders: From Animal Studies to Phase II Trials Nelson Valentin, B.S., Andres Acosta, M.D., Ph.D., and Michael Camilleri, M.D. Clinical Enteric Neuroscience Translational and Epidemiological Research (C.E.N.T.E.R.) Mayo Abstract Introduction—The most common gastrointestinal disorders which include evidence of dysmotility include: gastroparesis, the lower functional gastrointestinal disorders associated with altered bowel function [such as chronic (functional) diarrhea, chronic idiopathic constipation (CIC)], and opioid induced constipation (OIC). These conditions, which are grouped as gastrointestinal motility and functional disorders, are characterized by abnormal motor, sensory, or secretory functions that alter bowel function and result in a significant disease burden, since currently available treatments do not completely alleviate symptoms. New drugs are being developed for these disorders, targeting mechanisms involved in the pathophysiology of these diseases, specifically, motor function, intestinal secretion and bile acid modulation. Areas Covered—The article provides a brief overview of motility disorders and the drugs approved and currently available for these indications. It also provides an evaluation of the efficacy, safety and possible mechanisms of the drugs currently under investigation for the treatment of gastroparesis, chronic diarrhea, CIC and OIC, based on animal to phase II studies. Medications with complete phase III trials are excluded from this discussion. Expert opinion—Treatment of gastrointestinal motility disorders requires the understanding of the pathophysiological mechanisms, biomarkers to identify subgroups of these disorders, and robust pharmacological studies from animal to phase II studies. These are prerequisites for the development of efficacious medications and individualizing therapy in order to enhance the treatment of these patients. Keywords acetylcholine; agonist; antagonist; ghrelin; motilin; muscarinic; opioids; pharmacology; prokinetics; receptor; serotonin; bile acids; secretagogues 55905 Tele: 507-266-2305 . entity with a financial interest in or financial conflict with the subject matter or materials discussed in the manuscript apart from those disclosed. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 1. Introduction Gastrointestinal and colonic motility disorders are defined as disorders associated with inadequate, incoordinated, or excessive gastrointestinal muscular activity. These disorders can be due to endogenous or exogenous causes, but there is usually no evidence of a structural etiology. These motility disorders result in abnormal propulsion of gastric or intestinal content and altered sensory response along the gastrointestinal tract. The abnormal transit
