HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, manuscript, author manuscript, gastrointestinal, disorders, manuscript author, receptor, motility, studies, phase, constipation, drugs, patients, colonic, treatment


usually no evidence of a structural etiology. These motility disorders result in abnormal propulsion of gastric or intestinal content and altered sensory response along the gastrointestinal tract. The abnormal transit may be the result or may be associated with abnormal intestinal fluid secretion. The most common gastrointestinal disorders that include evidence of dysmotility include gastroparesis, the lower functional gastrointestinal disorders associated with altered bowel function [such as chronic (functional) diarrhea, chronic idiopathic constipation (CIC)], and opioid induced constipation (OIC). These constitute a large portion of the referrals to gastroenterologists and cause a significant disease burden, since currently available treatments do not completely alleviate symptoms. The disease burden associated with these disorders may lead to impaired mental and physical functioning compared to healthy Pharmacological management is limited, and there are still many unmet needs for treating these disorders. Current investigations of potential drugs target motor function, intestinal secretion and bile acid modulation, which are all mechanisms involved in the pathophysiology of these disorders. This review summarizes the pathophysiology of the common gastrointestinal motility disorders, provides a brief overview on current management, and focuses on drugs under investigation (from animal studies to phase II studies) for gastrointestinal and colonic motility disorders. Experience reported in phase III clinical trials has been excluded from this review. 2. Enteric and Central Nervous System and Hormonal Interactions Regulate Functions in the Gastrointestinal Tract Normal peristalsis and homeostatic sensory and motor mechanisms along the gastrointestinal tract result from a series of control mechanisms involving extrinsic parasympathetic and sympathetic pathways, intrinsic nervous system and the electrical and contractile properties of the smooth muscle cells. These functions are regulated by neurotransmitters and intraluminal chemicals within the gastrointestinal tract. Responses to stimuli such as nutrients, or mechanical forces stimulate production of peptides and amines from enteroendocrine cells that activate intrinsic primary afferent neurons in the intestines and, ultimately, stimulate vagal, splanchnic and pelvic afferents to convey signals to the central nervous system. Release of substances from enteroendocrine cells can be modulated by neurotransmitters. Some of the amines and peptides released also function as hormones, being released from one region and affecting other regions of the gastrointestinal tract, having been delivered through the circulation. In the intrinsic and gut-brain pathways, there are several neurotransmitters such as 5-HT, tachykinins, acetylcholine, nitric oxide, somatostatin and vasoactive intestinal peptide. These lead to physiological responses from Expert Opin Investig Drugs. Author manuscript; available in PMC
