HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, manuscript, author manuscript, gastrointestinal, disorders, manuscript author, receptor, motility, studies, phase, constipation, drugs, patients, colonic, treatment


are several neurotransmitters such as 5-HT, tachykinins, acetylcholine, nitric oxide, somatostatin and vasoactive intestinal peptide. These lead to physiological responses from Expert Opin Investig Drugs. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2016 June 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript ion fluxes that alter membrane potential of intrinsic nerves and gut smooth muscle; this results in the peristaltic reflex, organized contractions to propel content in the stomach and colon. In addition, the neurotransmitters also control intestinal secretion of fluid and electrolytes, and sensation that stimulates local responses to alter gastrointestinal functions or activate long afferent pathways that lead to conscious perception of gastrointestinal stimuli. Targeting receptors for these substances with selective receptor agonists or antagonists provides the pharmacological basis for treating gastrointestinal motility disorders. 3. Gastrointestinal Motility Disorders: Pathophysiology and Outline of Current Management 3.1. Gastroparesis Gastroparesis is defined as a syndrome of objectively delayed gastric emptying in the absence of mechanical obstruction, and cardinal symptoms include early satiety, postprandial fullness, nausea, vomiting, bloating and upper abdominal pain . In gastroparesis, there may be abnormal function of smooth muscle, enteric and extrinsic autonomic nerves, or the interstitial cells of Cajal (pacemakers in the stomach wall). Diabetic, postsurgical and idiopathic are the most common conditions in patients with gastroparesis . Other associated conditions include Parkinsonism, paraneoplastic disease and scleroderma . Currently approved drugs for treatment of gastroparesis target dopamine D2 receptors; metoclopramide (a D2-receptor antagonist and some 5-HT receptor agonism) is the only FDA-approved medication for the treatment of gastroparesis, and the recommendation is that treatment should be for no longer than 12 weeks. Domperidone is also a dopamine D2 receptor antagonist that can be prescribed through the FDA’s expanded access to investigational drugs and is approved for prescription in most other countries including European countries. Among macrolide antibiotics, erythromycin and azithromycin have been demonstrated to act as motilin receptor agonists; however, these compounds also have multiple actions (e.g. at calcium channels, P2X channels). This class of drugs is not yet approved for specific indication of gastroparesis. Erythromycin is the most extensively studied and, like azithromycin and clarithromycin, there is support in the literature for their efficacy in gastroparesis in the short term. They improve gastric emptying, but have in the past been associated with tachyphylaxis due to down regulation of the motilin receptor, which typically starts after two weeks of the onset of therapy . It is important to
