HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, manuscript, author manuscript, gastrointestinal, disorders, manuscript author, receptor, motility, studies, phase, constipation, drugs, patients, colonic, treatment


the past been associated with tachyphylaxis due to down regulation of the motilin receptor, which typically starts after two weeks of the onset of therapy . It is important to note that erythromycin, administered at doses generally used for treatment of bacterial infections, causes tachyphylaxis. An important study by Coulie et al. demonstrated that erythromycin exerts its effects either by motilin receptors on intrinsic cholinergic neurons, or receptors on the smooth muscle itself. It is thought that tachyphylaxis is actually centered on the enteric neuronal functions of motilin receptor agonists. Thus, lower doses of erythromycin retain efficacy after multiple repeat dosing, as a result of their short-acting stimulation of motilin receptors on smooth muscle. The same can be achieved with the motilin receptor agonist, camicinal (discussed below). Expert Opin Investig Drugs. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2016 June 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript 3.2. Chronic Diarrhea Chronic diarrhea is a common gastrointestinal disorder. After exclusion of mucosal diseases such as inflammatory bowel disease and celiac disease, chronic diarrhea is most often due to functional disorders such as irritable bowel syndrome with diarrhea (IBS-D) or functional diarrhea, which manifest with increased frequency, looser consistency and larger volume of stools. Chronic diarrhea, defined as the production of loose stools with or without increased stool frequency for more than 4 weeks, is a common symptom that has prevalence in the United States of approximately 3%–5% . In absence of mucosal diseases, chronic diarrhea may be caused by numerous factors including increased intestinal and colonic motility, sugar or bile acid malabsorption, altered intestinal permeability and barrier function, mast cell infiltration or immune activation, increased intestinal secretion and, possibly, increased colorectal sensation. The role of increased sensation is suggested by the observation that, among patients with irritable bowel syndrome, diarrhea was the bowel dysfunction that was about 4 times as frequent in patients with hypersensitivity compared to those with normal rectal sensitivity . Unfortunately, no therapy that is effective in exclusively reversing colorectal hypersensitivity has been demonstrated to restore normal bowel function in IBS-diarrhea. Therefore, visceral sensitivity is not a primary target for treatment of bowel dysfunction manifesting as diarrhea. The current first line drug for the treatment of chronic diarrhea is the oral μ-opioid receptor agonist, loperamide; diphenoxylate is also used as a first line therapy, though combination of a widely available preparation of diphenoxylate with atropine may result in
