HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, manuscript, author manuscript, gastrointestinal, disorders, manuscript author, receptor, motility, studies, phase, constipation, drugs, patients, colonic, treatment


is the oral μ-opioid receptor agonist, loperamide; diphenoxylate is also used as a first line therapy, though combination of a widely available preparation of diphenoxylate with atropine may result in adverse effects. Bile acid malabsorption accounts for 25% of the cases of chronic diarrhea , and bile acid binders (such as cholestyramine, 4g, three times per day, or colestipol) and off label use of colesevelam (625mg, 1–3 tablets, 2 times per day) are indicated for treatment [12–14]. 3.3. Chronic Idiopathic Constipation Constipation refers to unsatisfactory defecation and is characterized by infrequent stools, harder stool consistency, difficult stool passage, or combinations of these symptoms for at least 3 months. Constipation can be classified into three broad categories with mechanisms involved in altered (slow) colonic transit, normal colonic transit or rectal evacuation disorders (dyssynergic defecation). In the tertiary referral experience of the senior author, slow transit constipation was identified (without concomitant rectal evacuation disorder) in 61/1411 patients, whereas dyssynergic defecation was identified in 390/1411, and the remaining 950 patients had normal transit constipation . Chronic idiopathic constipation (CIC), also known as functional constipation, is one of the most common types of constipation encountered by clinicians and typically corresponds to constipation in the presence of normal colonic transit. A systematic review reported a pooled prevalence of CIC of 14% and that it was more common in females and people of lower economic status . There are several treatments for CIC already approved for use over the counter and these include stimulants (e.g., bisacodyl and senna alkaloids), osmotic laxatives (e.g., magnesium salts and PEG-based agents), and surface active agents (e.g., docusate). Among the Expert Opin Investig Drugs. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2016 June 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript medications approved for treatment of CIC and requiring prescription are the secretagogues, lubiprostone (chloride channel activator) and linaclotide (guanylate cyclase C receptor agonist), and the 5-HT receptor agonist, prucalopride. These agents are now approved in most countries, though prucalopride is still not approved by the FDA. There are no medical treatments of proven benefit in patients with dyssynergic defecation and no medications specifically developed for or proven to be beneficial in slow transit constipation. 3.4. Opioid Induced Constipation Opioid induced bowel dysfunction is due to opioid induced alteration in gastrointestinal motility, secretory and sphincter functions. These actions are mainly mediated by the μ and opioid receptors . Opioid induced constipation can
