HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, manuscript, author manuscript, gastrointestinal, disorders, manuscript author, receptor, motility, studies, phase, constipation, drugs, patients, colonic, treatment


dysfunction is due to opioid induced alteration in gastrointestinal motility, secretory and sphincter functions. These actions are mainly mediated by the μ and opioid receptors . Opioid induced constipation can occur in up to 40% of patients receiving opioid therapy . Laxatives can improve bowel function to a certain extent, but are limited by the refractory nature of opioid bowel dysfunction. Naloxone in a fixed combination with oxycodone is another approved option, but its efficacy is limited by the central action of naloxone that may induce withdrawal symptoms and block analgesia. Current investigations are focused on peripherally acting μ opioid receptor antagonists (PAMORAs) that selectively target μ opioid receptors in the gastrointestinal tract (discussed below). 4. Methods to Identify Early Investigational Therapeutics We reviewed the literature in PubMed, Web of Sciences, and Clinicaltrials.gov for articles describing current investigations on novel drugs for the treatment of gastric, intestinal and colonic motility disorders. We included articles describing animal studies to phase II studies in humans, as summarized in Table 1. 5. Early Investigational Therapeutics 5.1. New Motilin Receptor Agonist Although erythromycin is currently used “off-label” as a gastric prokinetic, it may induce antibiotic resistance, is associated with tachyphylaxis , and may inhibit cytochrome P-450 CYP3A4, leading to unwanted drug interactions. In addition, because erythromycin is extensively metabolized by cytochrome P-450 CYP3A isozymes, commonly used medications that inhibit the effects of CYP3A may increase plasma erythromycin concentrations, thereby increasing the risk of ventricular arrhythmias and sudden death . All of these factors point towards an urgent need for a more selective motilin receptor agonist. Although discovery of new, efficacious motilin agonists has been a rather long and winding road , a novel motilin agonist has significant promise, based on the hypothesis that the motilin receptors can be induced to preferentially evoke ('biased agonism'), via particular pathways, different responses with therapeutic advantages/disadvantages, such as preferentially activating the β-arrestin pathway, enhancing the ability to more quickly recover from desensitization of the receptor . Expert Opin Investig Drugs. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2016 June 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript GSK962040 (or camicinal) is a selective small molecule motilin receptor agonist that has been shown to induce phasic contractions and increase gastrointestinal motility in conscious dogs . A separate study has shown that GSK962040 has a greater effect in mediating cholinergic activity in the antrum when compared to the fundus and the
