HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, manuscript, author manuscript, gastrointestinal, disorders, manuscript author, receptor, motility, studies, phase, constipation, drugs, patients, colonic, treatment


motility in conscious dogs . A separate study has shown that GSK962040 has a greater effect in mediating cholinergic activity in the antrum when compared to the fundus and the small and symptoms, safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics in type 1 and type 2 diabetic subjects with gastroparesis has been completed (ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01262898), but no results for the study have been reported to date. 5.2. New Ghrelin Agonists Ghrelin is a peptide hormone that possesses orexigenic properties. Administration of physiological doses of exogenous ghrelin to humans does not significantly alter gastric motility ; however, high doses of ghrelin agonists administered to humans increase gastric tone and emptying, and frequency of small intestinal migrating motor complexes. The potential of ghrelin agonists to be used as prokinetics is being tested in patients with gastroparesis and postoperative ileus (reviewed in ref. 27). The ghrelin agonists currently under investigation are HM01 and RM-131. Extensive studies on of ulimorelin or TZP-102 were conducted in the past decade, but there are no ongoing studies registered in Clinicaltrials.gov, suggesting that its development is no longer being pursued. HM01 is under investigation for efficacy in gastrointestinal disorders. A recent study evaluated its in vitro and in vivo pharmacological profiles in a model of decreased frequency in 6-hydroyxopamine (6-OHDA) Parkinson’s disease rat model. Acute orogastric administration of HM01 in the 6-OHDA rats significantly decreased the 4-hour fecal output and water content, with a dose of 3mg/kg having a maximum effect. Pretreatment with HM01 prevented L-dopa/carbidopa induced delayed gastric emptying, simulating the gastroparesis observed in patients with Parkinson’s disease . It has also been shown that HM01 has a high binding affinity to the human ghrelin receptor, good bioavailability, and it crosses the blood-brain barrier. Further studies in other gastrointestinal motility disorders, apart from models of Parkinson’s disease, are eagerly awaited. Relamorelin (RM-131) is a novel pentapeptide that acts as a potent ghrelin receptor agonist. Relamorelin reversed postsurgical gastric ileus in rats and increased the rate of gastric emptying in healthy primates that had not undergone abdominal surgery. Animal studies evaluating and comparing relamorelin with ghrelin and other synthetic ghrelin mimetics for their prokinetic efficacy in models of gastrointestinal disorders in rats showed that relamorelin was 600-to 1800-fold more potent compared to other ghrelin mimetics in increasing gastric emptying . Further information in the public domain on the molecular structure and pharmacological selectivity of relamorelin and potential differences of effects in
