HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, manuscript, author manuscript, gastrointestinal, disorders, manuscript author, receptor, motility, studies, phase, constipation, drugs, patients, colonic, treatment


to other ghrelin mimetics in increasing gastric emptying . Further information in the public domain on the molecular structure and pharmacological selectivity of relamorelin and potential differences of effects in different species is eagerly awaited. In two randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover studies conducted in 10 patients with type 2 diabetes or type 1 diabetes and prior documentation of delayed gastric emptying, single dose administrations of relamorelin accelerated gastric half-emptying time Expert Opin Investig Drugs. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2016 June 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript of solids . In a phase II study, relamorelin, administered once or twice daily (10 or 20μg/day) for 4weeks, also accelerated gastric emptying of solids in type 1 diabetic patients and reduced upper gastrointestinal symptoms, with the most impressive effects being observed in patients with high baseline vomiting . The use of relamorelin in chronic constipation has also been investigated. A phase II placebo-controlled study with daily administration evaluated the safety, efficacy and tolerability of 100μg/day for 2 weeks in patients with chronic constipation, with colonic transit as the primary measure outcome (ClinicalTrials.govID NCT01781104) . The study also demonstrated acceleration of colonic transit, as well as increased number of spontaneous bowel movements (BM) and accelerated time to first BM after first dosing with relamorelin compared to placebo . In a mechanistic evaluation of intra-colonically measured motor activity, 100μg relamorelin significantly increased the number of premeal propagated phasic contractions >50mmHg and numerically increased the number of postmeal propagated phasic contractions >50mmHg when compared to placebo . This suggests that relamorelin may stimulate colonic motility by inducing phasic contractions in addition to the already established effect on colonic transit. Although, it is unclear whether the propagated contractions are the cause or effect of relamorelin on colonic transit, the observation in the emptied colon suggests that the primary effect is on colonic motility, with secondary effect on transit. 5.3. Mirtazapine Mirtazapine is a noradrenergic and specific serotonergic receptor antidepressant; mirtazapine antagonizes ss2 receptor and blocks 5-HT and 5-HT and 5-HT receptors 2A 2C 3 , enhancing the release of norepinephrine and 5-HT. A study investigating the effect of mirtazapine on gastrointestinal motility in 12 dogs (6 under normal conditions and 6 with rectal distention) found that mirtazapine significantly accelerated gastric emptying in healthy dogs and the presence of delayed gastric emptying induced by rectal distention. Further clinical studies are necessary to assess the
