HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, manuscript, author manuscript, gastrointestinal, disorders, manuscript author, receptor, motility, studies, phase, constipation, drugs, patients, colonic, treatment


distention) found that mirtazapine significantly accelerated gastric emptying in healthy dogs and the presence of delayed gastric emptying induced by rectal distention. Further clinical studies are necessary to assess the potential of mirtazapine in patients with functional gastrointestinal diseases . 5.4. New 5-HT Receptor Agonists Prokinetic drugs directed at the colon target the activity of 5-HT receptors in the colonic mucosa. In the past, the inability of 5-HT agonists such as cisapride and tegaserod to selectively bind to colonic 5-HT receptors limited their safety in treating CIC. The multi- organ side effects were due to the affinity of tegaserod and cisapride for other receptors (e.g. 5-HT which may contribute to vascular actions that could be deleterious) and ion channels 2B [delayed rectifier potassium (IKr) channel] in cardiac muscle. The relative contributions of a wide variety of 5-HT receptor agonists and their potential effects on other receptors are beyond the scope of this review and are extensively discussed elsewhere . The new prokinetic agents currently under investigation overcome this limitation by having greater selectivity and specificity for 5-HT receptors in the intestine than for the IKr channel and have less intrinsic activity on cardiac muscle . Expert Opin Investig Drugs. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2016 June 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript In a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized study, subjects with CIC were treated with velusetrag (15, 30 or 50mg daily) for 4 weeks, and results showed that all three doses significantly increased spontaneous bowel movements (SBMs) and complete SBMs compared to placebo (with the 15mg dose having the largest effect). All doses were well tolerated . A systematic review and meta-analysis of the effects of prucalopride, velusetrag and naronapride for the treatment of CIC showed that, although must studies have been done with prucalopride, all three were superior at improving stool frequency and quality of life compared to placebo and had a favorable safety profile, with headache being the most frequent reported side effect . YKP10811 is a novel benzamide derivative that acts as a partial agonist of the 5-HT receptor. YKP10811 did not show any significant off-target binding to any other receptors, enzymes, or serotonin-receptor subtypes at 1mmol/L, except for binding to the 5-HT 2A receptor (Ki = 600nmol/L) and the 5-HT receptor (Ki = 31nmol/L). In a phase II single- 2B center, randomized, parallel-group, multiple-dose, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, 55 patients with functional constipation were treated
