HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, manuscript, author manuscript, gastrointestinal, disorders, manuscript author, receptor, motility, studies, phase, constipation, drugs, patients, colonic, treatment


Drugs. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2016 June 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript the gastrointestinal tract, resulting in chloride and bicarbonate secretion through the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR). This secretion is associated with increased numbers of bowel movements. Plecanatide is safe and well tolerated up to doses of 48.6mg in humans . Phase II studies have shown that plecanatide improves stool frequency and consistency, straining and abdominal discomfort . Two 12-week phase III studies are currently being conducted to appraise the safety and efficacy of plecanatide in treating CIC (ClinicalTrials.gov trial ID NCT01982240, NCT02122471). 5.6. Inhibitor of a Sodium-Hydrogen Channel, RDX5791 NHE3 is an intestinal Na+/H+ antiporter involved in the uptake of sodium into enterocytes from the intestinal lumen. RDX5791 is a minimally absorbed, small molecule NHE3 inhibitor that is in clinical development for the treatment of CIC and IBS-C. It is believed to decrease the absorption of sodium excretion from the kidneys and, thus, divert sodium (and water) excretion from the kidneys to the gastrointestinal lumen and, hence, to feces. Animal studies investigating in vitro activity in rats and in vivo efficacy in rats and dogs showed that NHE3 exhibits minimal systemic exposure, increases intestinal fluid secretion, accelerates intestinal transit, and increases stool score in a dose-dependent manner ; it also appears to have visceral antinociceptive properties in a rat model of visceral hypersensitivity . As described by Bulmer and Grundy , translation of efficacy in visceral antinociceptive activity observed in rodents to humans with functional bowel disorders has proved difficult for several reasons including the lack of a significant pathology in the human disorders around which to build an adequate animal model, the lack of comprehensive understanding of human visceral pain processing, and the lack of an adequate measurement for similar comparison of pain processing in both rodents and humans. RDX5791 exhibited antinociceptive activity in a rat model of visceral hypersensitivity similar to the effects shown by tegaserod, which had shown some antinociceptive activity in cats and humans based on experiments using barostat controlled pressure distensions. Similar studies in humans may support the evidence from rat models of potential antinociceptive activity of this new drug in humans. A multicenter, phase II, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of RDX5791 for the treatment of IBS-C and two phase I studies in healthy subjects have been completed (ClinicalTrials.gov trial ID
