HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, manuscript, author manuscript, gastrointestinal, disorders, manuscript author, receptor, motility, studies, phase, constipation, drugs, patients, colonic, treatment


coupled BA transporter (ASBT or IBAT). Elobixibat (A3309) acts locally in the lumen of delivery to the colon. In a phase I, single-center, 30-patient, prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 14-day treatment study with a dose escalating design (0.1– . Inhibition of bile acid absorption results in decreased stimulation of the nuclear farnesoid X receptors (FXR) in ileal enterocytes, thereby reducing the amount of fibroblast growth factor-19 (FGF-19) entering the portal circulation, and hence reducing the negative feedback on CYP7A1, the rate limiting enzyme of bile acid synthesis in the hepatocytes (for review, see ref. 58). In a randomized, placebo-controlled, phase IIb trial of elobixibat in patients with CIC, there was significant improvement in stool frequency and constipation related symptoms over a course of 8 weeks of treatment . Elobixibat significantly accelerated colonic transit and improved stool consistency in females with functional constipation when compared to placebo. The most common side effect was lower abdominal pain and cramping . An excess of BAs entering the colon can induce secretory and motility changes and is a common cause of chronic diarrhea. Many of these patients have reduced levels of FGF19 which is a BA synthesis regulator produced in response to farnesoid X-receptor (FXR) activation. Thus, FXR agonists have emerged as potential novel therapeutics in the treatment of chronic diarrhea. In a phase II, proof of concept, 2-week treatment study, obeticholic and improved symptoms of abdominal pain and urgency in patients with primary BA Two phase I studies assessing the safety and tolerability of the FXR agonist, Px-102, in healthy subjects have been conducted (ClinicalTrials.gov trial ID NCT0998672, Expert Opin Investig Drugs. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2016 June 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript NCT0998659), but to date there are no Phase II studies in chronic diarrhea. Further studies will evaluate the effectiveness of FXR agonists in treating gastrointestinal motility disorders. 6. Conclusion Current management of gastrointestinal motility disorders continues to prove difficult, but there are several new drugs and strategies currently under investigation. These include the PAMORA, TD-1211, for OIC, the secretagogue, plecanatide, and specific 5-HT agonists for CIC, and relamorelin for gastroparesis and chronic constipation. 7. Expert Opinion The key research findings are that medications based on understanding of pathophysiologic mechanisms of motility disorders are generally successful. Advances are predominantly in the field of disorders of lower gastrointestinal function associated with constipation where new classes of medications include
