HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: author, manuscript, author manuscript, gastrointestinal, disorders, manuscript author, receptor, motility, studies, phase, constipation, drugs, patients, colonic, treatment


of pathophysiologic mechanisms of motility disorders are generally successful. Advances are predominantly in the field of disorders of lower gastrointestinal function associated with constipation where new classes of medications include general approaches involving intestinal secretion or pro- motility agents or specific agents as noted with the PAMORAs for OIC. However, research done in the field of gastroparesis, which is associated with significant morbidity and mortality, is limited by the lack of a clear regulatory path or approved patient response outcome (PRO) endpoints for approval of medications by regulatory agencies. This deficiency has hampered proof of concept and phase IIB studies and, as a result, there has not been an FDA-approved drug for this indication for almost four decades, and the only approved drug is encumbered with a black box warning clinicians not to use the drug for over three months. Given the extensive understanding of pathophysiology and the potential mechanisms (targeting serotonergic, ghrelin, motilin and, potentially, tachykinin receptors), there is great potential to develop medications to help patients where the need is currently greatest, that is patients with gastroparesis. In addition, the American Neurogastroenterology and Motility Society has undertaken extensive psychometric and other validation studies to facilitate the development of a PRO for gastroparesis based on a daily diary gastroparesis cardinal symptom index (ANMS GCSI-DD) . Regulatory approval is eagerly awaited in order to encourage drug development in this field. In the absence of a significant pipeline of medications, the final validation, based on responsiveness in large numbers of patients as would occur in well designed phase IIB-III studies, is unavailable and can only become available if a PRO, such as the ANMS GCSI-DD, is accepted, either as the final or an interim endpoint for use in phase III clinical trials. The pace of progress in the coming years will likely depend on these regulatory issues, and the main pharmacological targets will remain in the same classes of drugs discussed in this article. Conceptual and clinical advances will be facilitated by validation of biomarkers to identify subgroups of these disorders, followed by well designed pharmacological studies from animal to phase II in humans to more effectively target disorders, especially when they are multifactorial or present several potential targets to restore normal function. A valid biomarker is defined as “a characteristic that is measured and evaluated as an indicator of Expert Opin Investig Drugs. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2016 June
