|
KEYWORDS: iron, anaemia, children, ida, disease, patients, ibd, treatment, intake, absorption, low, bleeding, oral, intestinal, years


management of anaemia in children with GI What is New diseases. Therefore, statements based on evidence and (cid:129) This is a comprehensive overview with rec- ifnotavailableformulatedasexpert opinionwerewritten ommendations and practice advice consid- along with recommendations and practice advice. ering a broad differential diagnosis of anae- mia allowing thorough diagnostic work‐up along an algorithm especially if the initial 2 | METHODS therapeutic approach is not successful. (cid:129) A detailed array of therapeutic options Databasesweresearchedforliteratureontheapproach weighing advantages and disadvantages as to anaemia in GI disease in children until 31 December well as pitfalls along an algorithm is 2023, using MESH terms in PubMed, MEDLINE, EM- presented. BASE, the Cochrane Library and Scopus databases. Statements and recommendations were discussed in virtualmeetings andan electronicvotewasheldto rate eachofthemusinga6‐pointscale(1:stronglydisagree; reviews, consensus among the authors was esta- 2: quite disagree; 3: somewhat disagree; 4: somewhat blished. agree; 5: quite agree and 6: strongly agree) with an opportunity to comment. These were approved if more than80%oftheparticipantsagreedwitheach(Grades5 3 | DEFINITION OF ANAEMIA and 6). Statements and recommendations were, when- ever possible, based on the available evidence. When 3.1 | Recommendation evidencefrompaediatricstudieswasnotavailable,adult data was sought. Where there was no evidence avail- The definition of anaemia in children with GI disease able from randomised control trials or systematic should be based on validated World Health | 512 BROEKAERTETAL. Organization (WHO) criteria (level of evidence [LoE]: Hypo‐regenerative anaemia can occur in low; strength of recommendation [SoR]: strong, voting: aplastic anaemia, renal cell aplasia, renal failure or 100% agreement). endocrinedisorders.Adisturbanceinthematuration and proliferation of red blood cells (RBCs) may be caused by defective DNA synthesis, as in 3.1.1 | Statement anaemia due to vitamin B12 and/or folic acid defi- ciency. In IDA, thalassaemia, and ACD, there is In children with GI disease, anaemia can be classified impaired Hb synthesis.7 ACD is multifactorial and basedonpathogenicmechanisms,redcellmorphology associated with the presence of infection, inflam- andclinicalpresentation(LoE:low;SoR:strong,voting: mation or malignancy. To understand the patho- 100% agreement). mechanism of anaemia, assessment of hepcidin levels may be very helpful. Hepcidin is an iron‐ regulatory hormone that inhibits iron release from 3.1.2 | Practice points cells of the reticuloendothelial system and intestinal absorption leading to hypoferraemia. An increase in 1. Vitamin B12 and/or folic acid deficiency, iron defi- hepcidin and other inflammatory cytokines, there- ciency anaemia (IDA) and anaemia of chronic dis- fore, reduces the availability of iron for erythropoi- ease (ACD) may cause hyporegenerative anaemia. esis in the bone marrow. It is
