|
KEYWORDS: iron, anaemia, children, ida, disease, patients, ibd, treatment, intake, absorption, low, bleeding, oral, intestinal, years


there- ciency anaemia (IDA) and anaemia of chronic dis- fore, reduces the availability of iron for erythropoi- ease (ACD) may cause hyporegenerative anaemia. esis in the bone marrow. It is usually a mild 2. IDA is diagnosed in the presence of ferritin <30 or normocytic or microcytic anaemia with re- <100μg/Lintheabsence/presenceofactivedisease, ticulocytopenia and with low circulating iron and low respectively. transferrin saturation, but with a normal to elevated 3. ACDismultifactorialandassociatedwiththepresence iron storage protein ferritin. of infection or inflammation. A reduced erythrocyte mass can be the conse- 4. Anaemia can be classified as acute or chronic quence of haemolytic anaemia, resulting from both according to the clinical presentation. intrinsicandextrinsicfactors.Hereditaryoracquired diseases can be the cause of intrinsic abnormalities in the structure and membrane of RBSs, such as 3.2 | Summary of evidence spherocytosis and elliptocytosis, enzymatic dis- orders (glucose‐6‐phosphate dehydrogenase Anaemiaisapublichealthproblemaffectingbothhigh‐ [G6PD]andpyruvatesynthesis),sicklecellanaemia and low‐income countries. Approximately one quarter and thalassaemia. Regarding extrinsic factors of of the world's population (almost 2 billion people) suf- anaemia, haemolytic anaemia and thrombocytope- fers from anaemia, with 39.8% of children <5 years of nic purpura or disseminated intravascular coagula- age affected, equivalent to 269 million children, and tion represent mechanical processes with the with the highest prevalence rate (60.2%) observed in destruction of RBCs. Furthermore, antibody‐ children living in the African region. The WHO esti- mediated destruction of RBCs can also be con- matesthattheglobalprevalenceofanaemiainchildren sidered an extrinsic disorder. aged 6–59 months in European and North American ThemorphologyofanaemiaisdescribedbyRBC children is 20.3% and 6.1%, respectively.1,2 size, shape and colour.5 Using this classification Anaemia is defined by a haemoglobin (Hb) level or system, anaemias are classified as hypochromic redcellmassbelowtherangeconsiderednormalforage and gender, which results in decreased oxygen‐carrying capacitytothebody'stissues.3,4ThenormalrangeofHb varieswithage,genderandrace,andtherefore,specified TABLE 1 WHOclassificationofanaemiaaccordingtoageand severity. thresholds should be considered for diagnosis (Table 1). Anaemia can be classified based on pathogenesis, red Agepopulation Anaemia(Hbing/dL) garding the pathogenic mechanisms, these are repre- 6monthsto5years 10–10.9 7–9.9 <7 sentedbyinadequateproductionandlossoferythrocytes 6–11years 11–11.4 8–10.9 <8 due to either bleeding or haemolysis. Based on these mechanisms, anaemia can be further subdivided into (a) 12–14years 11–11.9 8–10.9 <8 hypo‐regenerative, with a decreased bone marrow pro- Non‐pregnantfemale≥15years 11–11.9 8–10.9 <8 duction from impaired function, decreased number of Pregnantfemale≥15years 10–10.9 7–9.9 <7 precursor cells, reduced stem cell density, or lack of nu- trients; and (b) regenerative, with an appropriate bone Male≥15years 11–12.9 8–10.9 <8 marrow response to a reduced erythrocyte mass, char- Note:Adaptedfromreference3. acterised by increased production of erythrocytes.6 Abbreviations:Hb,haemoglobin;WHO,WorldHealthOrganization. | BROEKAERTETAL. 513
