|
KEYWORDS: iron, anaemia, children, ida, disease, patients, ibd, treatment, intake, absorption, low, bleeding, oral, intestinal, years


casein phosphopeptide content. During 3. High intake of cow's milk in infants can result in a adolescence, iron requirements are high due to rapid poor intake of iron‐rich foods and inhibition of growth and development in both boys and girls and absorption of dietary iron due to a high calcium and even more so in girls considering regular blood loss casein phosphopeptide content. due to menstruation. 4. Adolescents have higher iron requirements due to Malnutrition, including both under‐ and overnutrition,16 rapid growth and development in both boys and is associated with anaemia. In undernourished children, girls, and due to regular blood loss during men- stuntingratherthanwastingisassociatedwithanaemia.17 struation in girls. Thereisnoclearcorrelationbetweendietaryintakeofiron 5. As children with neurological impairment are at and iron status.18,19 However, undernutrition alone (and increased risk for anaemia, the assessment of not nutritional deficiency per se) can make children more the micronutrient status, including iron, vitamin susceptible to various conditions (e.g., parasitic infections B12 and folate should be part of the nutritional and inflammation), which can reduce Hb levels.17 Impor- assessment. tantly, overnutrition is also associated with ID due to ele- 6. In children treated with proton pump inhibitors vatedlevelsof hepcidin.16 In obese individuals, increased (PPIs), anaemia can be caused by the underlying hepcidin leads to decreased expression of iron‐exporter diseaserequiringtheuseofPPIs(e.g.,Helicobacter ferroportin‐1,whichleadstoadecreaseinironabsorption pylori gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux) or by and plasmatic bioavailability.16 Moreover, obesity is also decreased iron absorption in the duodenum due to associatedwithsubclinicalinflammation,whichcanfurther changed acidity. increase hepcidin levels.20 7. Especially in children with IBD, anaemia may also be a side effect of different therapies. 4.2.2 | Children and adolescents with neurological impairment 4.2 | Summary of evidence Undernutrition and its consequences are often pres- 4.2.1 | Malnutrition ent in children with neurological impairment, due to bothnutritional(inadequatedietaryintakebecauseof Nutritional deficiencies are the most common cause of oral motor dysfunction, gastroesophageal reflux and anaemia.14 The prevalence of IDA in Europe is <2% in constipation)andnon‐nutritional(typeandseverityof infantsundertheageof6months,risingtoabout2%–3% underlying neurological disability, antiepileptic medi- ininfants6–12monthsand3%–9%at1–3yearsofage.15 cation) factors. Deficiencies in iron and other micro- The prevalence of iron deficiency (ID) without anaemia is nutrients are common, occurring in about 10%–55% even higher, varying between 5% and 20%.15 of these children.21,22 Due to feeding difficulties, low ‘Nutritional anaemias’ are a result of insufficient energy intake is commonly reported in these chil- intake of certain nutrients, which are needed for the dren,23 which may result in inadequate intake of all synthesisofHbanderythrocytes.Themostcommon essential nutrients, including vitamins and minerals. cause of
