|
KEYWORDS: iron, anaemia, children, ida, disease, patients, ibd, treatment, intake, absorption, low, bleeding, oral, intestinal, years


in these chil- intake of certain nutrients, which are needed for the dren,23 which may result in inadequate intake of all synthesisofHbanderythrocytes.Themostcommon essential nutrients, including vitamins and minerals. cause of anaemia is ID, but deficiencies of other Children with neurological impairment who are ex- nutrients can also result in anaemia, namely vita- clusively tube‐fed are at increased risk of micro- mins A, B2 (riboflavin), B6 (pyridoxine), B12 nutrient deficiencies.24 Volume of prescribed enteral (cobalamin), C, D and E, folate and copper. Low formula, which provides adequate energy intake, is quality diet can result in multiple micronutrient defi- often insufficient to provide adequate amounts of ciencies, which can have a synergistic effect on the micronutrients to these children.25 Therefore, the development of anaemia. assessment of the micronutrient status, including IDA is particularly common in children below iron, vitamin B12 and folate should be part of the 2 years of age, since their daily dietary iron require- nutritional assessment of children with neurological ments are high due to rapid growth and development. impairment. All other micronutrient deficiencies Moreover, complementary foods introduced in the should also be corrected and the nutritional intake infant's diet often have a low iron content and should be revised by a dietitian. | BROEKAERTETAL. 515 4.2.3 | Pica IBD drugs Some studies have hypothesised anaemia as a pos- Pica is defined as the persistent ingestion of non‐ sible side effect of different therapies used in IBD, nutritivesubstancesformorethan1monthatanageat mainly in adult patients. which this behaviour is deemed inappropriate.26 A Mesalamine has been considered responsible for recent study from Germany found that 12.3% of chil- haemolytic anaemia in subjects with G6PD deficiency. dren practiced the behaviour at least once, while re- Thisisoneofthemostcommonenzymedisorderswith curring pica behaviour was reported in 5% of pa- great variation in prevalence across geographical tients.27 The behaviour is most commonly observed in areas. RBCs of these individuals are very sensitive to children with neurological disabilities, but can also oxidative injury, given the low amount of reduced nic- occur in normally developing children. However, this otinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate generated condition is often overlooked by physicians and un- by the deficient enzyme. Although mesalamine com- derreported by parents.28 The most common types of pounds have been reported to be unsafe in moderate pica include geophagia (clay ingestion) and amylo- to severe G6PD deficiency by some regulatory agen- phagia (raw starch ingestion). Complications of pica cies, a recent study
