|
KEYWORDS: iron, anaemia, children, ida, disease, patients, ibd, treatment, intake, absorption, low, bleeding, oral, intestinal, years


be unsafe in moderate pica include geophagia (clay ingestion) and amylo- to severe G6PD deficiency by some regulatory agen- phagia (raw starch ingestion). Complications of pica cies, a recent study has provided evidence that this depend on the ingested material. ID is a common drug, in any formulation and even at high doses (up to complication,29,30 particularly in patients with geopha- 4800mg/day) is safe in this group of patients.33 gia.31 WhetherIDcauses picaor picacauses IDisstill Both sulfasalazine and methotrexate act as folate a matter of debate. However, it is likely that the antagonists and can potentially cause megaloblastic ingested material induces a secondary IDA either by anaemia. Concomitant therapy with folic or folinic acid binding iron and inhibiting its absorption and/or by (5‐formyltetrahydrofolate)whileontreatmentwiththose adding the bulk into a child's diet already low in iron drugscanpreventanaemiaandmaintainnormalblood intake. Pica generally resolves on its own in children levels of folic acid.34 with normal cognitive function. Psychotherapy and Myelosuppression can be a complication in pa- family counselling may be required when education tients treated with thiopurines (azathioprine and alone does not relieve pica. 6‐mercaptopurine), especially in those carriers of mutations either in thiopurine S‐methyltransferase (TPMT) enzyme or in the nudix hydrolase 15 4.2.4 | Drug‐induced anaemia (NUDT15) gene. TPMT variant alleles are associ- ated with low enzyme activity and pronounced Anaemia as side effect of certain drugs used in GI pharmacologic effects of thiopurines due to the high diseases has been reported in the literature. However, concentration of its active metabolites (thioguanine it is not listed among the most frequent causes of nucleotides). On the other hand, loss‐of‐function haematologictoxicitiesinchildrenduetoscarcityinthe alleles in the NUDT15 gene are common in Asians literature. and Hispanics and reduce the degradation of active thiopurine metabolites, also predisposing to myelo- Proton pump inhibitors suppression.35 Haematologic toxicity usually pres- ID due to the use of PPIs has been recognised for ents with pancytopenia, namely mild to severe leu- many years, although infrequently reported. Of note, kopenia and neutropenia associated in some cases anaemia can be one of the presenting symptoms in with milder anaemia and/or thrombocytopenia. Iso- diseases requiring PPI use (H. pylori infection, gas- lated anaemia in patients treated with thiopurines troesophageal reflux, etc.). However, whilst recent has not been reported. TPMT genotyping before studies in adults suggest it can be more frequent than treatment with thiopurines reduces the incidence of previously reported (around 50% as compared to 20% myelosuppression. However, some
