|
KEYWORDS: iron, anaemia, children, ida, disease, patients, ibd, treatment, intake, absorption, low, bleeding, oral, intestinal, years


genotyping before studies in adults suggest it can be more frequent than treatment with thiopurines reduces the incidence of previously reported (around 50% as compared to 20% myelosuppression. However, some cases of mye- reported in previous studies), no specific data are losuppression in patients with a normal TPMT available in children.32 Duodenal iron absorption activity have been reported and other predisposition requires the reduction of Fe3+ to Fe2+ by the duodenal factors are suspected.36,37 apical ferrireductase STEAP3 or the duodenal cyto- Anaemia as a side effect of anti‐tumour necrosis chrome b. Dietary iron consists of both heme (32%) factor (TNF) medications (infliximab and adalimu- and non‐heme (68%) iron.32 Non‐heme iron, which is mab are approved for children with IBD) has been mostlyintheferric(Fe3+)oxidationstate,islessreadily rarely reported. Aplastic anaemia has been absorbedandrequiresanacidicgastricenvironmentto described in sporadic case reports of patients trea- increase its bioavailability. As PPIs decrease gastric ted with infliximab, but most of the cases are rheu- acid production, less Fe3+ becomes available for matoid arthritis patients.38 A single case of intestinal reduction and,hence, lessferrous iron (Fe2+) infliximab‐induced autoimmune haemolytic anaemia isavailableforabsorption,resultinginthedevelopment inapatientwithpositiveanti‐nuclearantibodystatus of ID. has been reported.39 | 516 BROEKAERTETAL. 4.2.5 | Practice points Foodprotein‐inducedenterocolitissyndrome(FPIES) is a non‐IgE‐mediated allergy with cow's milk protein 1. Infants with signs and symptoms of allergic procto- being one of the most commonly reported triggers.40 colitis or enterocolitis should be screened for IDA. These infants experience emesis and watery diarrhoea 2. Anaemia can occur in gastroesophageal reflux dis- after ingestion of the allergen. Chronic FPIES develops ease due to chronic iron losses from erosions after repeated ingestion of the triggering food leading to causedbyprolongedactionofacidicgastriccontent poor weight gain or weight loss, hypoproteinaemia and on the oesophageal mucosa but also because of anaemia(reportedin25%ofpatients).45,46Childrenwith reduced iron intake. FPIES often require longer periods of food avoidance, 3. H. pylori gastritis in children can lead to IDA, which but most develop tolerance by school age.45 isunlikeinadultsnotduetohaemorrhagiclesionsor Heiner syndrome is a rare food‐induced hyper- gastric atrophy, but due to other factors such as sensitivitytocow'smilkproteincharacterisedbychronic competition for iron availability, the role of hepcidin respiratory symptoms with pulmonary infiltrates, failure or outer membrane proteins, the VacA and sabA to thrive, GI symptoms (vomiting and diarrhoea) and gene, concomitant diseases or a poor iron intake. anaemia.47 About 10% of affected children develop a 4. Significant (ID) anaemia in children can be found severe form of the disease leading to pulmonary he- and may bethe only presenting
