|
KEYWORDS: iron, anaemia, children, ida, disease, patients, ibd, treatment, intake, absorption, low, bleeding, oral, intestinal, years


itself, the host, and the occurs mostly in breastfed infants (through fragments environment.51 Although it is well documented that of ingested proteins excreted into the mother's milk) persistent H. pylori infection in the gastric mucosa in and presents with haematochezia. However, these childrencanleadtoIDA,thepathogenesisandspecific infants rarely become anaemic.40,41 Reports on the risk factors remain poorly understood. Most children asymptomatic children to even 64% in patients with dence of overt blood loss due to GI haemorrhagic haematochezia. FPIAP usually begins within the lesions. Unlike adults, in H. pylori‐infected children, first weeks of life and resolves in late infancy.40 In ex- gastric atrophy and intestinal metaplasia are rarely clusively breastfed infants, breastfeeding should be found, suggesting that impaired gastric acid secretion encouraged and elimination of cow's milk in the may not be a primary or direct cause of H. pylori‐ maternal diet can be considered. associated IDA. Therefore, some other possible | BROEKAERTETAL. 517 mechanismshavebeenproposedsuchas:competition directed at symptom control, but their benefits remain forironavailability,theroleofhepcidin,theroleofouter unclear.53,55Thenaturalhistoryandlong‐termprogression membrane proteins (some encoding genes are of CG are variable. In some cases, there is a complete involved in iron‐uptake mechanisms), the VacA and resolution; however, the majority has a chronic disease sabA gene, concomitant diseases such as coeliac pattern.55 disease (CD), parasitic infection and a poor iron intake.52 Anastomotic ulcers AUs in the GI tract can develop early after anasto- H. pylori‐negative chronic gastritis motic formation until up to 28 years after initial sur- Apart from H. pylori gastritis, other forms of gastritis gery.57 The incidence of AU is between 0.3% and (such as eosinophilicgastritisandautoimmune atrophic 8%.58 Besides IDA, AU can present with abdominal tationofeosinophilicgastritisisvariable,withabdominal also be the only presenting symptom. The patho- painasthemostcommonsymptomfollowedbyvomiting genesis is not well understood; therefore, the ther- and other symptoms including anaemia, melaena, food apeutic approach is variable. Antibiotics, mesala- aversions, failure to thrive, oedema and ascites.53 mine, sulfasalazine and immunosuppressants can Autoimmune atrophic gastritis is an inflammatory dis- be used although results in the literature are usually ease characterised by atrophy of the mucosa induced by poor.59 If necessary, endoscopic therapy with argon autoantibodies against parietal cells or intrinsic factors. plasma coagulation of the ulcers and clipping is Several cases have been reported in children.53 Auto- performed with some promising results.60 Surgery immune processes damage the parietal cells, resulting in with resection and establishing a new anastomosis hypochlorhydriaandreducedsecretionofintrinsicfactors. must be considered if conservative methods and As hydrochloric acid is essential for
