|
KEYWORDS: iron, anaemia, children, ida, disease, patients, ibd, treatment, intake, absorption, low, bleeding, oral, intestinal, years


a range of ascending colon and the terminal ileum.64 Therapy 6 months to 5.2 years after diagnosis) while the others depends on the severity of bleeding and recurrence (71%)hadnoanaemiawithongoingironsupplementation of symptoms. In more than 90%, bleeding stops orhadrecurrenceofanaemiaafterdiscontinuationorpoor spontaneously, but it can recur. Argon plasma compliance to the treatment.55 Other medications (PPIs, coagulation is a safe and effective therapy for sucralfate, prednisone and budesonide) are mainly symptomatic children.65 | 518 BROEKAERTETAL. Intestinal haemangiomatosis anywhere in the GI tract. As a result, patients may Intestinal haemangiomatosis may be part of diffuse present with severe IDA from recurrent GI neonatal haemangiomatosis, which is a rare and pos- haemorrhage.73 sibly life‐threatening congenital disorder. Intestinal Ultrasoundistheinitialdiagnosticmethodofchoice haemangiomas are more common in the small bowel forviscerallesions.Itcanbeperformedendoscopically and most commonly present with painless GI bleeding if GI venous malformations are suspected. Other ranging from slowly progressive to massive or life‐ diagnostic modalities include MRI, CT, barium studies, threatening.66 Other manifestations include intussus- and skin biopsy. Wireless capsule video endoscopy ception,bowelobstruction,anaemiaorperforation,and and therapy using double‐balloon enteroscopy have congestive heart failure.66,67 Computed tomography allowedmid‐smallbowelbluerubberbleblesionstobe (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are non‐ assessed and treated effectively.74 Pharmacologic invasive and reliable methods to diagnose hae- agents have been tried with variable responses.75 If mangiomatosis.66 In addition to colonoscopy, scintig- there is significant intestinal involvement, surgical raphy or capsule endoscopy may be useful when the resection may be the only choice to prevent life‐ bleeding focus is not detected by other exams. Pro- threatening GI haemorrhage.76,77 pranolol has been described as an effective treatment for infantile haemangiomas, and besides surgical or HHT (Osler–Weber–Rendu syndrome) endoscopic treatment, patients may respond to pro- HHT or Osler–Weber–Rendu syndrome is a vascular pranolol treatment alone.66 disorder inherited as an autosomal dominant trait, with a variety of clinical manifestations. Clinical prevalence Polyps in the population is estimated between 1:5000 and Polyps are less common in children than in adults. In 1:8000, with approximately 85,000 individuals affected childhood, juvenile polyps typically present with pain- in Europe.78–81 Since the majority of patients are less lower GI bleeding between the age of 2 and unaware of their diagnosis, HHT is likely to be 5yearsandoccurinupto2%ofchildrenundertheage underreported.82,83 of 10 years.68 Children with a significant polyp burden, Lesions found in HHT include arteriovenous such as in juvenile polyposis and Peutz‐Jeghers syn- shunts and telangiectasia. HHT develop with drome, may present with IDA, protein‐losing entero- increasing age and are not generally present
