|
KEYWORDS: iron, anaemia, children, ida, disease, patients, ibd, treatment, intake, absorption, low, bleeding, oral, intestinal, years


include arteriovenous such as in juvenile polyposis and Peutz‐Jeghers syn- shunts and telangiectasia. HHT develop with drome, may present with IDA, protein‐losing entero- increasing age and are not generally present at pathyandhypoalbuminemia.69Mostintestinalpolypsin birth. The most common problems are epistaxis, GI children are nonfamilial like juvenile polyps and bleeding and IDA, along with characteristic muco- inflammatorypolyps.Hereditarypolypsarepartofwell‐ cutaneous telangiectasia. Arteriovenous malforma- described polyposis syndromes, most of which have tions frequently affect the liver, lungs and central malignant potential, including a higher possibility of nervous system. The combination of epistaxis, GI extraintestinal neoplasms. The mucosa of the polyps bleeding and IDA associated with characteristic can be erythematous and friable and can easily bleed. telangiectasiaonthelips,oralmucosaandfingertips When the diagnosis is made with endoscopy, a poly- is typical of HHT.81,84 pectomy can safely be performed. Bleeding GI lesions in HHT may be accessible for local endoscopic therapy. Embolization and/or surgery may be useful for emergency control of haemorrhage 4.3.2 | GI syndromes associated with from discrete lesions. This is also the preferred option anaemia for diffuse or endoscopically inaccessible severe GI bleeding. Pharmacologic treatment with bevacizumab, Anaemia in children can be caused by a few rare vas- an antiangiogenic agent that inhibits vascular en- cular malformation syndromes, which may be con- dothelialgrowthfactor,canbeusefulinindividualswith sideredwhenevaluatingachildwithrefractoryanaemia. severe bleeding.84,85 Blue rubber bleb naevus syndrome BRBNS is a rare congenital syndrome (estimated 4.3.3 | Practice points incidence 1:14,000 births affecting both sexes) of venous malformations or blebs that commonly arise in 1. In children with exocrine pancreatic insufficiency the skin and GI tract, with only a few hundred cases (EPI), the causes of anaemia can be ID, bone reported.Rarely,lesionsmaybefoundinotherorgans, marrow failure or adverse events of medications. such as the liver, spleen, heart, eye, bladder, kidney, 2. Inchildrenwithcysticfibrosis(CF),causesofIDare lung and central nervous system.70–72 chronic inflammation due to pulmonary exacerba- Visceral involvement tends to present in early tions,impaireddietaryabsorption,orincreasedloss adulthood.Thesmallbowelisthemostcommonsite via sputum, and IDA may be the initial presenting of GI tract involvement; however, lesions can occur symptom in these children. | BROEKAERTETAL. 519 3. IDAisfrequentlypresentatinitialdiagnosisandmay anaemia, defined by Hb <2SD according to age and be the only manifestation of coeliac disease. It is sex, was 24.5%.88 most likely caused by malabsorption due to small Previously, ID could be present at diagnosis bowel villous atrophy, but also GI bleeding and because of malnutrition. Meanwhile, newborn screen- inflammation may play a role. ing and therapeutic management have decreased the 4. Children with IBD often present
