|
KEYWORDS: iron, anaemia, children, ida, disease, patients, ibd, treatment, intake, absorption, low, bleeding, oral, intestinal, years


atrophy, but also GI bleeding and because of malnutrition. Meanwhile, newborn screen- inflammation may play a role. ing and therapeutic management have decreased the 4. Children with IBD often present with IDA and co- rateofmalnutrition.However,severeanaemiaremains existing ACD, and may have functional ID (FID) aconcernandcanbethefirstsymptomatdiagnosis.89 mimicking IDA. In a Turkish study, 17 out of 231 infants had severe 5. AnaemiainchildrenwithIBDmaybeabiomarkerof anaemiaatdiagnosis;itwasassociatedwithprolonged disease activity, with refractory anaemia indicating prothrombin time and low albumin levels, but not with persistent inflammation, as well as a prognostic EPI, which also suggests that malnutrition, but not marker, as it is associated with worse patient malabsorption, contributes to ID. outcomes. Healthcare providers feared that iron supplemen- 6. In children with IBD, therapy with oral iron supple- tation could potentiate pulmonary infections because mentation may not be successful as epithelium iron iron could trigger bacterial growth and enhance the storesaresaturatedduetoelevatedhepcidinlevels formation of P. aeruginosa biofilm communities. How- 7. Deficiencies due to micronutrients other than iron adults with IDA treated with a low dose of iron (ferrous may contribute to anaemia in children with IBD. sulphate 325mg daily for 6 weeks), iron status im- 8. Screening for vitamin B12 metabolism should be proved without correcting anaemia and without affect- performed especially in Crohn's disease patients ing iron sputum load, pulmonary exacerbation, and with terminal ileal disease, after resection of the lung microbiome.90 Thus, ID remains a concern in rel- terminal ileum, or with small intestinal bacterial atively healthy, well‐nourished CF children. Finally, overgrowth, and for folic acid especially in patients antibiotic treatment exposed CF patients to drug sen- with extensive small intestinal disease or taking sitivity and haemolytic anaemia.91 thiopurines. Anaemia is also present in children with other EPI 9. Intestinal dysmotility, such as achalasia, gastropar- conditions.InalargeItaliancohortof121Shwachman– esis and paediatric intestinal pseudo‐obstruction Diamond Syndrome children, anaemia was present at (PIPO), may cause poor caloric intake resulting the first haematologic assessment in 4.6%, and the in IDA. cumulative incidence of severe anaemia at 30 years was20.2%.92Cytopeniaisduetobonemarrowfailure. Itisoftenintermittentorasymptomatic.Anaemiaisalso 4.4 | Summary of evidence present in Pearson syndrome and in Johanson– Blizzard syndrome. 4.4.1 | Malabsorptive causes of anaemia In children with EPI, the causes of anaemia can be ID, 4.4.2 | Coeliac disease bone marrow failure or even adverse events of medications. The prevalence of anaemia in newly diagnosed CD In CF, the main cause of anaemia is ID second- patientsrangesfrom12%to69%.93Theaetiologyof ary to chronic inflammation due to pulmonary ex- anaemia in
