|
KEYWORDS: iron, anaemia, children, ida, disease, patients, ibd, treatment, intake, absorption, low, bleeding, oral, intestinal, years


macrocytosis is present, especially in the absence of subjects with positive coeliac serology but normal thiopurine use.9 intestinal mucosa).98 Anaemia in IBD needs to be diagnosed and man- The main treatment consists of a GFD and iron aged promptly as many studies have shown that is supplementationuntilirondepositsarerestored.Itmay associated with worse patient outcomes and impacts takeuptoayearforHbtonormaliseandupto2years healthcare resource consumption.105–107 to restore iron deposits.93 Deficiencies in folate and vitamin B12 are also common in CD patients and may induce anaemia. 4.4.4 | Dysmotility However, due to the frequent concomitance with iron malabsorption, atypical findings on the blood smear Achalasia may be found instead of the classic macrocytic anae- Oesophageal achalasia is a rare oesophageal mia. Folate and vitamin B12 supplementation is rec- motility disorder characterised by lack of oesopha- ommended in these patients.93 geal peristalsis and partial or absent lower oeso- phageal sphincter (LES) relaxation upon swallow- ing. The main pathophysiologic mechanism is 4.4.3 | Inflammatory bowel disease represented by selective degeneration of inhibitory myenteric oesophageal neurons, which play a key Anaemia is common in children with IBD and it can be role in regulating the peristalsis of the smooth consideredabiomarkerofdiseaseactivity.Prevalence muscle of the oesophageal body and LES relaxa- rates are reported as high as 78% in newly diagnosed tion. The aetiology of achalasia is largely unknown, children with IBD.99 There are several aetiologies of although several data suggest an autoimmune‐ IDA in IBD (Table 3). IDA and ACD are the two most mediated process. The most common symptoms at common types of anaemia in IBD and can often co‐ presentation are vomiting, dysphagia, weight loss, exist. In addition, in IBD patients, FID (Table 4) can chest pain, and regurgitation. Children are more mimic IDA.9,101 In FID, iron stores may be barely ade- likely to experience respiratory symptoms, such as quate, but iron is not available for erythropoiesis. This chronic cough and recurrent respiratory infections. may be due to ACD, where iron release from macro- Weightlosswasreportedinabouttwothirdsofchildren phages back into the circulation is blocked due to with achalasia, and faltering weight in one third, both increased hepcidin, or to erythropoiesis‐stimulating relatedtopoorcaloricintakeandrecurrentregurgitationof agents, where the release of iron into the circulation food content besides a limited amount of nutrients reach- maynotberapidenoughtosupporterythropoiesis.The ing the absorptive area of the gut. While a recent study pathophysiology of anaemia in IBD is based on the showed that iron intake was significantly lower than in dysregulationofironhomoeostasisandthepivotalrole healthy controls, the
