|
KEYWORDS: iron, anaemia, children, ida, disease, patients, ibd, treatment, intake, absorption, low, bleeding, oral, intestinal, years


area of the gut. While a recent study pathophysiology of anaemia in IBD is based on the showed that iron intake was significantly lower than in dysregulationofironhomoeostasisandthepivotalrole healthy controls, the serum levels were normal.108 ofhepcidin.99Limitedluminalironisabsorbedfromoral Althoughdataintheliteraturearelimited,itisexpectedthat dietorsupplementsbecauseepitheliumironstoresare childrenwithuntreatedachalasiaandsignificantlong‐term saturated.Therefore,inIBD,oralironsupplementsare symptoms would develop IDA. unlikely to improve blood iron status.102 ArecentstudyhasshownthatmanychildrenwithIBD Gastroparesis suffer from anaemia and micronutrient deficiencies at Gastroparesisisdefinedasdelayedgastricemptyingof diagnosis and some fail to recover after 1 year despite fluids and/or solids in the absence of a mechanical being in clinical remission.103 The prevalence of deficien- obstruction. The most common symptoms include cies in this cohort at diagnosis and 1‐year follow‐up, nausea, vomiting, bloating, early satiety, abdominal respectively, were among others iron (56% and 27%), pain and weight loss. Anaemia is not uncommon in ferritin(39%and27%),vitaminD(22%and13%),vitamin gastroparesis and is related to poor oral intake due to A (25% and 25%), vitamin E (5% and 4%), copper significant foregut symptoms, such as nausea, early (17%and27%),vitaminB12(2%and5%)andRBCfolate satiety, postprandial fullness and vomiting. IDA has (1%and17%).Anaemiawaspresentin57%and25%at been reported in approximately half of the adult popu- diagnosisand1‐yearfollow‐up,respectively.Eachofthese lation with gastroparesis (diabetic and non‐diabetic) micronutrientsplaysseveralrolesnotonlyinanaemiaand along with other nutritional deficiencies.100 Moreover, the course of disease.103,104 Vitamin B12 deficiency in ID was reported in 69% of adults with gastroparesis, | BROEKAERTETAL. 521 TABLE 3 AetiologiesofIDAinIBD. AetiologyofIDAduringactiveIBD 1. Increasedexcretionofironfromepithelialdesquamationandactivemucosalbleeding 2. DecreasedintakeofdietaryironduetoongoingGIsymptoms 3. Reducedtransportofirontothebloodduetohighhepcidinconcentration 4. ImpairederythropoiesisasaresultofinflammationorIBDmedication‐inducedtoxicity AetiologyofIDAduringquiescentdisease 1. Inadequateironrepletionafteractivedisease 2. Ongoinglow‐gradeinflammationthatinhibitsoptimalbloodironconcentrations,which contributestothedevelopmentofACD 3. Persistentpoorintakeofiron‐richfoods 4. Lowintakeofironabsorption‐promotingfoods(e.g.,fruitandvegetableshighin vitaminC) 5. Highdietaryintakeofinhibitorsofironabsorption(e.g.,tannins,phyticacid,high proteinintake,andcalcium) 6. Concurrentmicronutrientdeficiency(e.g.,vitaminB12,vitaminD,andfolate) Abbreviations:GI,gastrointestinal;IBD,inflammatoryboweldisease;IDA,irondeficiencyanaemia. TABLE 4 VarioustestsusedtodifferentiateIDAfromACD content in the absence of a mechanical obstruction. andFID. PIPO can be acquired or congenital, and based on its aetiology can be classified into primary, secondary or IDA ACD FID idiopathic causes, whilst based on histopathology into Hb ↓ ↓ ↓ neuropathies,myopathiesormesenchymopathies.The MCV ↓ Normal ↓ornormal clinical manifestations of PIPO are extremely variable Ferritin ↓ ↑ ↑ornormal and determined by the age of onset (i.e., prenatal, neonatal and late‐onset disease), the extent of the Ironlevel(unreliable) ↓ ↓ ↓ disease and the phase of the disease (relapse or Transferrin ↑ ↓ ↓ remission). The most common symptoms include sig- nificant abdominal distension, abdominal pain, vomit- Transferrinsaturation ↓ ↓/↑ ↓ ing, faltering growth and inability to tolerate enteral sTfR ↑ ↓ornormal ↑ornormal nutrition. sTfR‐F >2 <1 <2,variable Long‐standing symptomatology before diagnosis of PIPO often leads to malnutrition and associated Zincprotoporphyrin >40 <40 >40 nutritional deficiencies resulting in IDA. Due to third CRP Normal ↑ ↑ spacing of pooling fluid in the distended bowel loop Hepcidin ↓
