|
KEYWORDS: iron, anaemia, children, ida, disease, patients, ibd, treatment, intake, absorption, low, bleeding, oral, intestinal, years


malnutrition and associated Zincprotoporphyrin >40 <40 >40 nutritional deficiencies resulting in IDA. Due to third CRP Normal ↑ ↑ spacing of pooling fluid in the distended bowel loop Hepcidin ↓ ↑ ↑or↓ leading to unreliable weight measurement, mal- nutrition can be underdiagnosed. Children with STfR‐F/Chr ↑/↓ ↓/↑ ↓/↓ PIPO receiving home parenteral nutrition are at risk Note:AdaptedfromGoyaletal.99 of developing IDA, as this is commonly associated Abbreviations:ACD,anaemiaofchronicdisease;Chr,Hbcontentin with home parenteral nutrition.110 Furthermore, as reticulocytes;CRP,C‐reactiveprotein;FID,functionalirondeficiency;Hb, many children with PIPO undergo ileostomy, haemoglobin;IDA,irondeficiencyanaemia;MCV,meancorpuscularvolume; sTfR,solubletransferrinreceptorlevel;sTfR‐F,sTfRlogferritinindex. the degree of diversion colitis in the disconnected segment can sometimes be significant and exacer- bate anaemia. occurring more commonly in idiopathic than diabetic gastroparesis.109 IDA and the impact on oesophageal motility IDA was found to be associated with a decrease in oe- Paediatric intestinal pseudo‐obstruction sophagealcontractionsandanincreaseinoesophageal PIPOisthemostsevereGImotilitydisorderinchildren transit duration. The most probable mechanism is that and is characterised by symptoms and signs arising ID leads to rapid loss of iron‐dependent enzymes and from the inability of the GI tract to propel its luminal mucosal degeneration.111,112 | 522 BROEKAERTETAL. 5 | DIAGNOSTIC APPROACH IN inflammatory parameters, coeliac serology and ANAEMIA stool testing for faecal occult blood and calpro- tectin (Table 1). 5.1 | Recommendations 2. A nutritional evaluation includes assessment of micronutrient intake and intake of foods capable of Screening for anaemia should be performed in all chil- inhibiting iron absorption (Table 1). drenwithacuteandchronicGIdiseaseatinitialdiagnosis 3. MCV as well as reticulocyte count are helpful andberepeatedonaregularbasisbasedonthedegree to classify anaemia, initiate further diagnostic of anaemia and the course of the underlying condition testing and find the GI aetiology of anaemia (LoE: low; SoR: strong, voting: 100% agreement). (Table 1). Summary of evidence 5.1.1 | Statement For the diagnostic approach, it is helpful to use the classification of anaemia regarding pathogenesis In chronic inflammatory GI diseases such as IBD, it is (hypo‐regenerative anaemia with a low reticulocyte necessarytodifferentiateIDAfromACDandFID(LoE: count vs. regenerative anaemia with a normal or low; SoR: strong, voting: 92% agreement). high reticulocyte count) and red cell morphology (microcytic vs. normocytic vs. macrocytic anaemia) (Figure 1). 5.1.2 | Practice points Despite the availability of various tests, a single testmaynotdistinguishIDAfromACDorFID.113,114 1. Screening for anaemia should include evaluation Therefore, it is helpful to use a combination of tests of haematological parameters, iron status, (Table 4). FIGURE 1 SuggestedalgorithmfordiagnosisofanaemiainchildrenandadolescentswithGIdisease.CMV,cytomegalovirus;CRP,C‐reactive protein;CT,computertomography;EBV,Epstein–Barrvirus;ESR,erythrocytesedimentationrate;IBD,inflammatoryboweldisease;IgA, immunoglobulinA;GI,gastrointestinal;H.pylori,Helicobacterpylori;HbC,haemoglobinC;HbS,haemoglobinS;LDH,lacticdehydrogenase;MCV, meancorpuscularvolume;MRA,magneticresonanceangiography;MRE,magneticresonanceenterography;MRI,magneticresonanceimaging;WBC, whitebloodcell.1.Forexample,folicacidandvitaminB12.2.Infectiouscauses:giardiasis,malaria,tuberculosis,EBVandCMV. | BROEKAERTETAL. 523 6 | THERAPEUTIC MANAGEMENT 9. The duration of oral iron therapy depends on the OF ANAEMIA severity of anaemia
