|
KEYWORDS: iron, anaemia, children, ida, disease, patients, ibd, treatment, intake, absorption, low, bleeding, oral, intestinal, years


4). FIGURE 1 SuggestedalgorithmfordiagnosisofanaemiainchildrenandadolescentswithGIdisease.CMV,cytomegalovirus;CRP,C‐reactive protein;CT,computertomography;EBV,Epstein–Barrvirus;ESR,erythrocytesedimentationrate;IBD,inflammatoryboweldisease;IgA, immunoglobulinA;GI,gastrointestinal;H.pylori,Helicobacterpylori;HbC,haemoglobinC;HbS,haemoglobinS;LDH,lacticdehydrogenase;MCV, meancorpuscularvolume;MRA,magneticresonanceangiography;MRE,magneticresonanceenterography;MRI,magneticresonanceimaging;WBC, whitebloodcell.1.Forexample,folicacidandvitaminB12.2.Infectiouscauses:giardiasis,malaria,tuberculosis,EBVandCMV. | BROEKAERTETAL. 523 6 | THERAPEUTIC MANAGEMENT 9. The duration of oral iron therapy depends on the OF ANAEMIA severity of anaemia at treatment initiation and the patient'sresponse,butusuallylastsbetween8and 6.1 | Recommendations 12 weeks. 10. Frequent GI side effects of oral iron are constipa- The treatment of anaemia in children with GI diseases tion, diarrhoea, abdominal pain, and nausea, and should be guided by the aetiology and the severity oral iron preparations may have an effect on the of the condition (LoE: low; SoR: strong, voting: 100% intestinal microbiome. agreement). 11. The response to oral iron therapy should be assessed after 4 weeks of treatment. 12. There are different parenteral iron formulations 6.1.1 | Statements approved and available for children, such as iron dextran, iron sucrose, ferric gluconate, ferric car- Treatment goals are normalisation of Hb levels and boxymaltose and ferumoxytol. replenishmentofironstoresbycorrectingtheaetiology 13. Allparenteralironpreparationsarerelativelysafe,but including bleeding control, restoration of intestinal carry a small risk of adverse reactions, such as integrity, and reduction of the inflammatory burden allergicreactions, which need to be treated promptly. (LoE: low; SoR: strong, voting: 100% agreement). 14. Patients having received parenteral iron should be monitored for phosphate levels as parenteral iron formulations may cause post‐infusion 6.1.2 | Practice points hypophosphatemia. 15. Evaluation of response to parenteral iron therapy 1. Inchildrenwithmildanaemia(Hb≥10g/dL),andin should be performed at 4 and 12 weeks after mild or inactive inflammatory disease, IDA should treatment. be treated with a combination of iron supplemen- 16. The decision to transfuse erythrocytes should be disease activity. including the stability of the patient, ongoing blood 2. In children with moderate‐to‐severe anaemia (Hb loss and how quickly the anaemia has developed, <10g/dL), and/or active inflammatory activity, as well as Hb levels (<7–8g/dL). intolerance or inadequate response to oral iron, poor compliance, parenteral iron is indicated. 3. Erythrocyte transfusions are reserved for children 6.2 | Summary of evidence with acute bleeding and a rapid drop in Hb levels <7–8g/dL, and in clinically unstable patients. ThetreatmentofanaemiainchildrenwithGIdiseasesis 4. Orally administered iron should be taken on an drivenbytheaetiologyandtheseverityofthecondition. emptystomachinamildlyacidicenvironmentsuch The therapeutic goals are Hb normalisation, replenish- as ascorbic acid to increase GI absorption. ment of iron stores and correction of vitamin deficien- 5. Adietarystrategytoimproveironstatusconsistsof cies. The first step is to counteract the causative factor consumption of heme iron‐containing foods (e.g., leading to anaemia including bleeding control, restora- red meats, poultry and fish) and non‐heme iron tion
