|
KEYWORDS: iron, anaemia, children, ida, disease, patients, ibd, treatment, intake, absorption, low, bleeding, oral, intestinal, years


first step is to counteract the causative factor consumption of heme iron‐containing foods (e.g., leading to anaemia including bleeding control, restora- red meats, poultry and fish) and non‐heme iron tion of intestinal integrity, and reduction of the inflam- foods (e.g., fortified cereals and bread, pulses, matory burden. In mild anaemia (Hb ≥10g/dL) and in nuts and seeds) in combination with foods high in mild or inactive disease, both IDA and ID should be ascorbic acid, which enhance non‐heme iron treated initially with a combination of iron supplementa- absorption. tion, dietary intake optimisation and disease activity 6. Phytates, polyphenols, calcium and animal protein control.115 It should be considered that during active (egg protein, milk protein and albumin) decrease inflammation,oralirontherapymaybelesseffectivedue GI iron absorption and should, therefore, be con- to poor absorption caused by iron entrapment in the sumed separately from iron‐containing meals. enterocytes secondary to elevated hepcidin levels.115 7. Foodsrichiniron(e.g.,animalproteinandfortified Parenteral iron is indicated in children with moderate‐ cereals) should be introduced early during com- severe anaemia, inadequate response to oral iron plementary feeding since by 6 months of age, the treatment, poor compliance or intolerance. infant's endogenous iron stores will have been Inadequate response to oral iron is defined as an used up. increaseinHb<1or<2g/dLwithin2or4weeksofstarting 8. Recommended dosing of oral iron in children ran- treatment, respectively.10 Persistent ID after a course of ges from 2 to 6mg/kg/day, administered once oralironorfrequentrecurrenceofIDshouldalsoinitiatea a day, and should not exceed the adult recom- switchtoparenteraliron.Oralironintoleranceisdefinedas mendeddoseof100mgofelementalironperday. the inability to tolerate at least two different oral iron | 524 BROEKAERTETAL. formulations. Intravenous iron should be strongly con- totalironabsorbed.Moreover,enhancersandinhibitors sidered in those circumstances (Figure 2). of iron absorption also affect the bioavailability of iron. In children with severe anaemia and in patients Heme iron and ascorbic acid increase absorption of with refractory active disease, intravenous iron should be iron from non‐heme sources, while phytates (grains considered as first‐line treatment. RBC transfusions and legumes), polyphenols (tea and coffee), calcium arereservedforacutecaseswitharapiddropinHbvalues (dairy products and supplements) and animal protein (of <7–8g/dL) and in clinically unstable patients. (milk protein, egg protein and albumin) inhibit its absorption.118 Therefore, a dietary strategy to improve iron status 6.2.1 | Dietary strategies mayincludetheconsumptionofacombinationofheme iron‐containing foods and non‐heme iron sources cou- Therearetwoformsofdietaryiron:hemeironwhichis pled with foods high in ascorbic acid, which enhances more effectively absorbed and non‐heme iron which non‐heme iron absorption.116 Foods high in iron has about two thirds of the bioavailability of heme absorption inhibitors should be
