Understanding the echocardiogram - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: echo, doppler, imaging, flow, figure, mitral, heart, valve, used, dysfunction, waves, normal, ultrasound, wave, velocity


siren change as it moves past them – as the police siren travels towards you, the frequency of the wave (pitch) appears to be higher than if it was stationary; as the siren travels away, the pitch appears to be lower. Estimates of blood-flow velocity can be made by comparing the frequency change between the transmitted and reflected sound waves. In cardiac ultrasound, Doppler is used in three ways: continuous-wave (CW) Doppler pulsed-wave (PW) Doppler color-flow mapping (CFM) Continuous-wave Doppler CW Doppler is sensitive, but, because it measures velocity along the entire length of the ultrasound beam and not at a specific depth, it does not localize velocity measurements of blood flow. It is used to estimate the severity of valve stenosis or regurgitation by assessing the shape or density of the output (see Figure 3). Figure 3 Continuous-wave Doppler signal. Pulsed-wave Doppler PW Doppler was developed because of the need to make localized velocity measurements of turbulent flow (it measures the blood-flow velocity within a small area at a specified tissue depth). It is used to assess ventricular in-flow patterns, intracardiac shunts, and to make precise measurements of blood flow at valve orifices. Color-flow mapping CFM uses measurements of the velocity and direction of blood flow to superimpose a color pattern onto a section of a 2D image (see Figure 4). Traditionally, flow towards the transducer is red, flow away from the transducer is blue, and higher velocities are shown in lighter shades. To aid observation of turbulent flow there is a threshold velocity, above which the color changes (in some systems to green). This leads to a "mosaic" pattern at the site of turbulent flow and enables sensitive screening for regurgitant flow. Figure 4 Color-flow mapping. Transesophageal echocardiography Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) is usually carried out under mild sedation with midazolam. A thin probe is passed down the esophagus until it is level with the heart. This position provides especially clear views. It is particularly useful for imaging posterior cardiac structures. The key indications for TEE are: infective endocarditis – if vegetations are not seen on transthoracic echo, but suspicion is high, or with prosthetic valves to rule out an embolic source (especially in atrial fibrillation) 2/5 acute dissection mitral valve (MV) disease preoperatively Contrast echocardiography Contrast echo can be useful for confirming a diagnosis of atrial septal defect (ASD). Agitating saline or synthetic contrast create microbubbles. These are
