Understanding the echocardiogram - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: echo, doppler, imaging, flow, figure, mitral, heart, valve, used, dysfunction, waves, normal, ultrasound, wave, velocity


mitral valve (MV) disease preoperatively Contrast echocardiography Contrast echo can be useful for confirming a diagnosis of atrial septal defect (ASD). Agitating saline or synthetic contrast create microbubbles. These are very reflective, and when injected intravenously can be seen as opacification in the echo window. They are normally seen on the right side of the heart before being trapped and absorbed by the pulmonary capillaries, so have no route to the left side of the heart. The contrast created by the bubbles allows a left-to-right shunt to be seen as a jet "interrupting" the opacification of the right atrium. However, there is a theoretical risk of systemic air embolism with a right-to-left shunt. Applications Echo is the cheapest and least invasive method available for screening cardiac anatomy. Generalists most commonly request an echo to assess left ventricular (LV) dysfunction, to rule out the heart as a thromboembolic source, and to characterize murmurs. The approximate normal values for various cardiac structures are described in Table 1. Table 1 The approximate normal values for various cardiac structures. IV: interventricular; LV: left ventricular. Systolic dysfunction LV systolic dysfunction is assessed using the ejection fraction (the percentage of the end diastolic volume ejected during systole). In most cases, this is estimated by eye from all the available echo views. A normal ejection fraction is 50%–80%, but values as low as 5% are compatible with life (end-stage heart failure). The E/A ratio When flow across the MV is assessed with PW Doppler, two waves are characteristically seen. These represent passive filling of the ventricle (early [E] wave) and active filling with atrial systole (atrial [A] wave). Classically, the E-wave velocity is slightly greater than that of the A wave (see Figure 5). However, in conditions that limit the compliance of the LV, two abnormalities are possible: Figure 5 E and A waves representing mitral flow in a healthy heart (E>A). reversal – in which the A wave is greater than the E wave. This indicates slow filling caused by older age, hypertension, left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH), or diastolic dysfunction exaggeration of normal – a tall, thin E wave with a small or absent A wave. This indicates restrictive cardiomyopathy, constrictive pericarditis, or infiltrative cardiac disease (eg, amyloidosis) Diastolic dysfunction A normal LV ejection fraction in the presence of the heart failure syndrome leads to a search for diastolic dysfunction. Typical echo findings in diastolic dysfunction
