Understanding the echocardiogram - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: echo, doppler, imaging, flow, figure, mitral, heart, valve, used, dysfunction, waves, normal, ultrasound, wave, velocity


(eg, amyloidosis) Diastolic dysfunction A normal LV ejection fraction in the presence of the heart failure syndrome leads to a search for diastolic dysfunction. Typical echo findings in diastolic dysfunction are normal LV cavity size, 3/5 thickened ventricle, and reversed E/A ratio. Wall-motion abnormality When ischemia occurs, contractile abnormalities of segments of the myocardium can be detected by echo prior to the appearance of electrocardiogram (ECG) changes or symptoms. Therefore, echo can be a valuable tool in the diagnosis of both stable coronary artery disease (via stress echo) and acute myocardial infarction. In the former situation, it offers localization of the ischemic region where the ECG cannot; in the latter, it offers some measure of the extent of the infarct and a screen for complications, such as ventricular septal defect (VSD). Valve assessment Echo is the tool of choice for the assessment of valvular abnormalities. Aortic stenosis The etiology of aortic stenosis (AS) can be confirmed by the visualization of either a bicuspid valve or calcification. The severity of the stenosis can be estimated by measuring high-velocity flow across the valve by Doppler. This can be converted to an estimation of the pressure drop. In addition, the effective orifice area can be measured (see Table 2). Table 2 Echo characteristics of aortic stenosis. Aortic regurgitation CFM is the most useful technique for detecting and quantifying the degree of regurgitation. The width of the regurgitant jet and of the slope of the decline in pressure gradient between the left ventricle and the aorta (which is reduced already compared with normal) are measured. Mitral stenosis With mitral stenosis (MS), as with AS, calcified, immobile MV leaflets can be demonstrated with 2D and M-mode echo. Anterior motion of the posterior MV leaflet in diastole (caused by commissural fusion) is characteristic in MS. Doppler demonstrates increased flow velocity and can be used to estimate the effective orifice area (see Table 3). Table 3 Echo characteristics of mitral stenosis. Mitral regurgitation As with aortic regurgitation, mitral regurgitation is assessed using CFM. The severity of mitral regurgitation is commonly reported as the area of the regurgitant jet expressed as a percentage of the area of the left atrium. Mitral valve prolapse The criteria for the diagnosis of MV prolapse (MVP) from an echo have changed over the years. Initial reports using the 4-chamber view suggested a population prevalence of almost 20%. However, a more accurate figure
