NLM Citation: Hoofnagle JH. Ampicillin. [Updated 2026 Jan 24]. In:
KEYWORDS: liver, injury, liver injury, ampicillin, pubmed pmid, pubmed, pmid, drug-induced, drug, cases, drug-induced liver, patients, amoxicillin, induced, induced liver


LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Bookshelf URL: Ampicillin Updated: January 24, 2026. OVERVIEW Ampicillin is an oral, third generation aminopenicillin and is used widely to treat mild-to-severe infections due to susceptible organisms. Ampicillin has been linked with idiosyncratic liver injury, but very rarely and largely in isolated case reports. Background Ampicillin (am" pi sil' in) is an oral, third generation penicillin that is one of the most commonly used antibiotics worldwide. Ampicillin has been available in the United States since the mid-1960s and continues to be widely used for bacterial infections in both children and adults. Ampicillin is indicated for mild-to-severe upper respiratory tract infections caused by susceptible agents, such as (but not limited to) Escherichia coli, Hemophilus influenzae, Listeria monocytogenesis, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Proteus mirabilis, Salmonella, Shigella, Staphylococcus aureus (non-penicillinase producing), Staphylococcus epidermidis, and Streptococcus pneumoniae. Ampicillin is also used for pneumonia, meningitis, endocarditis and uncomplicated gonorrhea. Ampicillin is available orally in multiple generic formulations as capsules of 250 and 500 mg and is usually given in doses of 250 to 500 mg every 6 to 8 hours for 7 to 14 days. Ampicillin is also available in parenteral form (intramuscular and intravenous) and recommended doses are 2 to 4 grams daily in divided doses given every 4 to 6 hours. Side effects are usually mild and self-limited and can include diarrhea, nausea and vomiting, fatigue, headache, and rash. Rare but potentially serious adverse events include hypersensitivity reactions, anaphylaxis, severe skin rash, Stevens Johnson syndrome, C. difficile diarrhea, neutropenia, aplastic anemia and thrombocytopenic purpura. Hepatotoxicity The rate of serum aminotransferase and alkaline phosphatase elevations during ampicillin therapy is not well defined. High dose, intravenous ampicillin has been associated with ALT elevations in 9% to 11% of patients, but a similar rate is often found in comparator arms and the elevations are generally transient and asymptomatic. Rare instances of idiosyncratic liver injury have been reported in persons receiving the aminopenicillins, but they are rarely listed in large case series or prospective databases on drug-induced liver injury. The incidence of clinically apparent liver injury is far lower with ampicillin than occurs with amoxicillin, occurring probably in less than 1 in 200,000 exposed persons. Cases are characterized by a short latency period of a few days to as long as six weeks. The onset of liver
