NLM Citation: Hoofnagle JH. Ampicillin. [Updated 2026 Jan 24]. In:
KEYWORDS: liver, injury, liver injury, ampicillin, pubmed pmid, pubmed, pmid, drug-induced, drug, cases, drug-induced liver, patients, amoxicillin, induced, induced liver


in less than 1 in 200,000 exposed persons. Cases are characterized by a short latency period of a few days to as long as six weeks. The onset of liver injury can occur after the antibiotic is stopped. The serum enzyme pattern associated with aminopenicillin liver injury has included a hepatocellular pattern with marked elevations in ALT Author Affiliation: 1 Liver Disease Branch, NIDDK, NIH; Email: . 2 LiverTox and AST, and minimal elevations in alkaline phosphatase and rapid recovery after withdrawal. In addition, cholestatic forms of hepatic injury with marked alkaline phosphatase elevations (as also seen with penicillin- induced liver injury) have also been described, some of which have been associated with prolonged cholestasis and, rarely, with vanishing bile duct syndrome. The onset of hepatic injury may be accompanied by skin rash, toxic epidermal necrolysis, or Stevens Johnson syndrome. Autoantibodies are uncommon. Likelihood score: C (probable but rare cause of clinically apparent liver injury). Mechanism of Injury The cause of the liver injury associated with ampicillin use is probably hypersensitivity or allergy. Cases of recurrence upon rechallenge or reexposure have been reported. Outcome and Management In the few cases of ampicillin related acute liver injury that have been described, most patients have recovered, although recovery has been slow in some cholestatic instances (2 to 6 months). Rare instances of acute liver failure and several cases of vanishing bile duct syndrome have been reported with ampicillin induced liver injury. Corticosteroids have often been used to treat the allergic manifestations and, while they may improve fever and rash promptly, their efficacy in ameliorating the accompanying liver disease has not been shown. Instances of recurrence of liver injury with reexposure to the aminopenicillins and recurrence with exposure to cephalosporins have been reported. Patients with aminopenicillin induced hepatitis should avoid reexposure to other penicillins and should take cephalosporins with caution. Drug Class: Antiinfective Agents, Aminopenicillins Other Drugs in the Subclass, Aminopenicillins: Amoxicillin, Amoxicillin-Clavulanate, Ampicillin-Sulbactam, Bacampicillin, Pivampicillin PRODUCT INFORMATION REPRESENTATIVE TRADE NAMES Ampicillin – Generic, Principen® DRUG CLASS Antiinfective Agents COMPLETE LABELING Product labeling at DailyMed, National Library of Medicine, NIH Ampicillin 3 CHEMICAL FORMULA AND STRUCTURE DRUG CAS REGISTRY NO MOLECULAR FORMULA STRUCTURE Ampicillin 69-53-4 C16-H19-N3-O4-S ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY References updated: 24 January 2026 Zimmerman HJ. Penicillins. In, Hepatotoxicity: the adverse effects of drugs and other chemicals on the liver. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams and Wilkins, 1999. p. 595-6. (Expert review of penicillins
