HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: sleep, author manuscript, author, manuscript, apnea, central, airway, sleep apnea, collapse, obstructive, manuscript author, endoscopy, breathing, sleep endoscopy, respiratory


phase. This finding prompted a follow-up polysomnogram that showed severe predominantly central sleep apnea with a HCSB pattern (CSA-HCSB) (AHI 32 events/hour; central apnea index 20 events/hour). A prolonged lung-to-finger circulation time of 30–35 seconds, often observed with the central diathesis, was also noted (Figure 2).3 Given the revised diagnosis of CSA, he underwent cardiopulmonary evaluation and proceeded with phrenic nerve stimulation instead of HGNS. DISCUSSION This case illustrates the importance of correlating physiologic and anatomic assessment during DISE. In CSA-HCSB, pharyngeal collapse can occur during the apneic event and/or the hyperpneic phase.4 Collapse can occur at the ventilatory nadir in HCSB due to simultaneous reductions in neural drive to upper airway dilators and respiratory pump muscles, masking the central nature of the event. A marked increase in drive during the hyperpneic phase of HCSB can also result in collapse and snoring,5 especially after CPAP splinted the airway open during the apneic phase in our patient (Figure 1, lower panel). The presence of pharyngeal collapse on videoendoscopy alone, as during the standard DISE, can unfortunately reinforce a mistaken impression that obstructive sleep-disordered breathing patterns predominate. must remain highly attuned to the possibility of CSA masquerading as OSA, which can be easily misclassified on home sleep studies. Atrial fibrillation and heart failure are common cardiac conditions that predispose to CSA-HCSB and should alert physicians, particularly if CSA-HCSB is suspected on history or DISE. Other conditions associated with CSA- HCSB include stroke and raised intracranial pressure. As sleep surgeons, we understand that diagnostic clarity before surgery is paramount. In our case, a high-quality attended polysomnogram helped classify the respiratory events correctly with major implications for the patient’s ultimate therapy. The DISE-CAD setup involves a CPAP machine with nasal mask connected to a pneumotachometer to measure decrements in airflow, and airway pressure sensors to measure respiratory effort. Alternatively, respiratory inductance plethysmography belts commonly incorporated in home sleep studies can provide surrogate measures for respiratory effort. These signals can reliably and objectively demonstrate the absence of respiratory effort, which can be a potentially critical assessment in patients undergoing sleep surgery evaluation. In the setting of a standard DISE procedure with endoscopy alone, the sleep surgeon must be sensitive to the absence of respiratory effort suggestive of a central Laryngoscope. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2024 March 01. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript diathesis. Endoscopic clues include a lack of “tugging” on
