Chapter 39: Medication Use and Self-Care Practices in Persons With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, adults, medication, years, type, age, care, glucose, medications, type diabetes, age years, health, use, diagnosed, diagnosed diabetes


39–1 CHAPTER 39 MEDICATION USE AND SELF-CARE PRACTICES IN PERSONS WITH DIABETES Sharon H. Saydah, PhD Dr. Sharon H. Saydah is a Senior Scientist at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Chronic Disease and Health Promotion, Division of Diabetes Translation, Hyattsville, MD. Received in final form September 30, 2014. SUMMARY Individuals diagnosed with diabetes often take medications to control and manage their diabetes and engage in self-care practices. Among adults with diagnosed diabetes in the United States, 88.2% use either oral medications, insulin, or a combination of both to treat and control diabetes. Diabetes treatment patterns differ by demographics, duration since diabetes diagnosis, and glycosylated hemo- globin (A1c) levels. Adults with diabetes often have a number of comorbid conditions that require treatment and medications. An adult with diagnosed diabetes in the United States reports using an average of 5.9 different prescription medications. This number is higher than the average reported by adults with undiagnosed diabetes, prediabetes, or no diabetes (range 2.5–4.3). Diabetes self-care prac- tices are also an important component of diabetes treatment. The majority of adults with diagnosed diabetes report self-care practices, such as receiving a dilated eye exam (62.8%), self-monitoring of blood glucose (63.6%), and receiving a foot exam (67.5%). Report of self- care practices differs by demographics, time since diabetes diagnosis, and geography. Pancreatic transplants and bariatric surgery are sometimes indicated for the treatment of diabetes. However, these procedures are not common and entail a number of additional risks. Describing medication use, treatment patterns, and self-care practices among individuals with diabetes provides information to health care and public health professionals to better understand the multifactorial aspects of diabetes treatment. INTRODUCTION Diabetes is a complex disease that often requires a person with diabetes to follow a number of self-care practices, such as taking medications to control and manage their diabetes. In addition, persons with diabetes often have comorbid chronic conditions, including cardiovascular disease (CVD), hypertension, and depres­ sion, which often require taking multiple medications. This chapter describes both trends and current medication use and self-care practices among persons with diabetes. The majority of the chapter focuses on previously diagnosed diabetes defined by self-report of diagnosis by a health care professional. To place medi­ cation use among adults with diagnosed diabetes in the context of the larger adult population, it also includes data on persons with no diabetes, prediabetes, and undiagnosed diabetes. Persons without diabetes
