Chapter 39: Medication Use and Self-Care Practices in Persons With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, adults, medication, years, type, age, care, glucose, medications, type diabetes, age years, health, use, diagnosed, diagnosed diabetes


use among adults with diagnosed diabetes in the context of the larger adult population, it also includes data on persons with no diabetes, prediabetes, and undiagnosed diabetes. Persons without diabetes or with prediabetes or undiagnosed diabetes are classified based on glycosylated hemoglobin (A1c) or fasting plasma glucose levels among adults without diagnosed diabetes. DATA SOURCES, LIMITATIONS Information on medication use and self-care practices in the U.S. adult popu­ lation comes from a number of national health surveys: the National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys (NHANES) 1999–2010, the National Health Interview Surveys (NHIS) 1997–2010, and the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS). The NHANES is a representative sample of the noninstitu­ tionalized population in the United States and includes information collected from in-person interviews, physical examina­ tions, and laboratory tests. In addition, detailed information on prescription medications is collected during home interviews from physical medication containers. Similar to the NHANES, the NHIS is a nationally representative survey of the noninstitutionalized population in the United States; information is collected from in-person interviews. The BRFSS is a telephone survey that collects information on health-related risk behaviors, chronic conditions, and use of preventive services. The BRFSS is conducted in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and three U.S. territories. The limitations of these surveys pertaining to diabetes treatment and self-care practices include the lack of information on adherence with prescribed medica­ tions, reliance on self-report and lack of supplementary information from medical records, and lack of inclusion of the insti­ tutionalized population, which includes nursing home residents (1). Both the NHIS and BRFSS have the additional limitation of not collecting any laboratory or exam­ ination data. However, the NHANES, NHIS, and BRFSS all provide valuable informa­ tion related to the treatment and care of 39–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition the population with diabetes in the United States. Data presented in this chapter include new analyses of these national datasets conducted for Diabetes in America, 3rd edition, as well as national data published by the Division of Diabetes Translation of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Data presented on pancreas and islet transplantation are based on the International Pancreatic Transplant Registry and the Collaborative Islet Transplant Registry. DIABETES TREATMENT Treatment for diabetes often focuses on many different facets of the disease and on controlling and preventing known diabetes complications. The first goal of treatment for diabetes is typically manage­ ment of blood
