Chapter 39: Medication Use and Self-Care Practices in Persons With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, adults, medication, years, type, age, care, glucose, medications, type diabetes, age years, health, use, diagnosed, diagnosed diabetes


often focuses on many different facets of the disease and on controlling and preventing known diabetes complications. The first goal of treatment for diabetes is typically manage­ ment of blood glucose levels. Glycemic control is associated with reduced risk of both microvascular and macrovas­ cular complications among people with diabetes (2,3). Individuals with diabetes often have a number of comorbid condi­ tions, including hypertension and elevated cholesterol levels, which may require control with medications to reduce the risk of complications (4,5,6). Recommendations on medication use to treat diabetes depend upon the type of diabetes. Individuals with type 1 diabetes make little or no insulin and require daily insulin treatment to control and manage blood sugar levels, while individuals with type 2 diabetes still make insulin and may control blood glucose levels with no medication, oral medications, noninsulin injectable medications (such as gluca­ gon-like peptide [GLP]-1 receptor agonists), insulin, or a combination of these. In the United States from 2007 to 2010, 88.2% of persons age ≥20 years with diagnosed diabetes were treating their diabetes with insulin and/or oral medica­ tions: 58.4% were taking oral medications alone, 15.3% were taking insulin alone, and 14.5% were taking a combination of insulin and oral medications (Figure 39.1, Table 39.1). Patterns of diabetes treatment revealed many similarities and a few differ­ ences by demographic groups. Younger adults age <45 years were more likely than older adults to report using insulin alone (28.7%), possibly an indication of the low prevalence of type 2 diabetes and the higher prevalence of type 1 diabetes in this age group. Patterns of diabetes treatment by sex were similar. Patterns of diabetes treatment differed slightly by race/ethnicity. Non-Hispanic whites had the highest prevalence of insulin alone (18.3%) and combination of insulin and oral medication (16.2%). Mexican Americans had the lowest prevalence of use of insulin alone (10.1%), the highest prevalence of using oral medications alone (60.7%), the lowest prevalence of combined use of oral medication and insulin (11.0%), and the highest prevalence of no medication use (18.2%). Differences in patterns of diabetes treatment by demographic factors are shown in Table 39.1. Management of blood glucose levels is typically monitored by A1c level, an indicator of glycemic levels over the past 3 months. Standards of medical care for diabetes vary by individuals, and for many adults, the recommended A1c is <7.0% (<53 mmol/mol). Adults with higher A1c levels (≥8.0% [≥64 mmol/mol])
