Chapter 39: Medication Use and Self-Care Practices in Persons With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, adults, medication, years, type, age, care, glucose, medications, type diabetes, age years, health, use, diagnosed, diagnosed diabetes


sulfonylureas compared to less than one-quarter of adults age 20–44 years. Similar patterns were reported by males and females. Hispanics, including Mexican Americans, had a lower prevalence of thiazolidinedione use compared to non-Hispanic whites and somewhat lower prevalence than that in non-Hispanic blacks (Table 39.2). TRENDS IN DIABETES MEDICATION USE Trends in medication use for diabetes can be tracked using responses from adults age ≥20 years with diabetes to the NHIS (10). In all groups, the number of adults age ≥20 years with diabetes who report using any diabetes medication has increased from 1997 to 2009, while the numbers of adults age ≥20 years using insulin alone has remained stable (Figure 39.2) (11). Since 1997, there has been a slight increase in the percent of adults age ≥20 years taking a combination of insulin and oral medications or oral medications alone, while the proportion of adults age ≥20 years taking insulin alone has declined slightly; about one-fifth to one-quarter of the population has been taking no medications during this time period (Figure 39.3) (12). Trends in oral medication use may be influenced by clinical findings of benefit or risk, earlier stage of diagnosis, cost considerations, and new standards of medical care recommendations. Analyses of prescription claims data from 2006– 2008 for initiation of monotherapy in a large pharmacy database in the United States provides evidence of practice patterns over time. In the analyses, the authors documented increases in the initial monotherapy of metformin corre­ sponding to 2008 recommendations by the American Diabetes Association and the European Association for the Study of Diabetes (13,14) and declines in the use of thiazolidinediones, which are more expensive and have more adverse effects compared to metformin (15). These find­ ings are consistent with another study of pharmacy data in which the number of metformin prescriptions in the United States increased 97% between 2003 and 2012, while thiazolidinedione prescriptions decreased 64% in that time period and the absolute number of sulfonylurea prescrip­ tions remained constant (16). Among newly introduced medications in that study, the DPP-4 inhibitor sitagliptin was introduced in 2006 and had the biggest increase in usage, including 10.5 million prescriptions (single ingredient or combina­ tions) in 2012 out of a total of 120.9 million non-insulin glucose-lowering prescriptions. In a survey of ambulatory physician practices in the United States, a similar pattern of increasing metformin use and decreasing thiazolidinedione use was observed among prescription
