Chapter 39: Medication Use and Self-Care Practices in Persons With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, adults, medication, years, type, age, care, glucose, medications, type diabetes, age years, health, use, diagnosed, diagnosed diabetes


gastrointestinal agents; hormones; and psychotherapeutic medications, including those for depression (see the detailed list of medications from the NHANES 2005–2010 in Appendix 39.1) (Table 39.3, age-standardized; Appendix 39.2 crude estimates). In general, the proportion of adults taking these medications in 2005–2010 was highest among those with diagnosed diabetes. Many conditions associated with these medications occur at a higher prevalence among adults with diabetes compared to the general popu­ lation. For example, thyroid dysfunction commonly occurs in patients with type 1 diabetes, as autoimmune disease in one endocrine organ increases the predispo­ sition for other autoimmune endocrine disorders. The prevalence of hypothy­ roidism among people with diabetes was 10% compared to 6.6% among the general population (30). The relationship between diabetes and depression is complex, with some studies showing that diabetes may lead to depression and other studies showing that depression may lead to diabetes (18,31,32,33). The association of diabetes and depression is described in Chapter 33 Psychiatric and Psychosocial Issues Among Individuals Living With Diabetes. Regardless of the direction of causality, the age-standardized prevalence of anti­ depressant use in 2005–2010 was 19.0% or almost 1 in 5 adults with diabetes (Table 39.3, age-standardized; Appendix 39.2, crude estimates). This was higher than the prevalence for adults with undiag­ nosed diabetes (8.6%), prediabetes (9.6%), and no diabetes (11.6%). Prophylactic Aspirin Use The use of prophylactic aspirin to prevent CVD among individuals with diabetes is recommended for individuals at higher risk of CVD, defined as being age ≥40 years or with additional risk factors (5,6). However, potential benefits of primary or secondary CVD reduction must also be balanced by potential risks, such as bleeding and gastrointestinal symptoms (34,35). Almost two-thirds of adults age ≥40 years with diagnosed diabetes reported being medically advised to take low-dose aspirin as a prophylactic for CVD (61.3%) (Table 39.4). Adults with diagnosed diabetes who reported being advised to take aspirin tended to be age ≥75 years, non-Hispanic white, had longer duration of diabetes, and had a history of CVD. However, only 52.2% of adults age ≥40 years with diagnosed diabetes who received this advice reported currently following it. Adults with diabetes and a history of CVD were most likely to report currently taking aspirin after being advised to (76.2%). There was a small percentage of adults age ≥40 years with diagnosed diabetes who were not advised to take a low dose of aspirin who report taking it on
