Chapter 39: Medication Use and Self-Care Practices in Persons With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, adults, medication, years, type, age, care, glucose, medications, type diabetes, age years, health, use, diagnosed, diagnosed diabetes


39 39–8 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition daily self-monitoring of glucose increased from 48.4% in 2000 to 63.6% in 2010. Over the same period, the prevalence of receiving a foot exam by a health care professional within the last year also increased (61.3% to 67.5%). However, other self-care practices, such as annual dilated eye exams, ever attending a diabetes self-management class, annual visits to the doctor, and daily self-exam of feet, remained relatively stable from 2000 to 2010 (Figure 39.5) (39). The 2014 American Diabetes Association Standards of Care recommend an annual eye exam only for individuals with type 1 diabetes and for individuals with type 2 diabetes with retinopathy (5). BARRIERS TO SELF-CARE Many barriers to diabetes self-care have been identified, including caring for young children, dependent adults, and/or work­ place responsibilities. The Translating Research into Action for Diabetes (TRIAD) is a national, multicenter prospective study that provides useful information about effective treatments and better care for people with diabetes in managed care settings (44). Researchers for the TRIAD study asked study participants about these competing demands and examined how they affected diabetes care (45). Participants were grouped by whether they had other caregiving responsibilities (i.e., young children or dependent adults) or workplace responsi­ bilities, had both, or had neither. Among women, those who had any caregiving responsibilities with or without employ­ ment responsibilities had higher A1c levels (average A1c, 8.2% [66 mmol/mol]) than women with no caregiving responsibili­ ties (average A1c, 7.9% [63 mmol/mol]). Among men, any additional demands as a caregiver were associated with higher A1c levels (average A1c, 8.0%–8.3% [64–67 mmol/mol]) compared to those with no additional demands as a caregiver (average A1c, 7.8% [62 mmol/mol]). There was no significant association of addi­ tional demands with blood pressure or cholesterol levels. In general, having both caregiving and employment responsibil­ ities was associated with lower levels of diabetes self-management. An additional aspect of barriers to diabetes self-care practices is the residential or neighbor­ hood environment. A study of TRIAD participants found that neighborhoods where the participants perceived more problems, as defined by higher crime and less access to exercise facilities and supermarkets, were more likely to be associated with higher blood pressure and current smoking (46). National surveys of adults with diabetes may not always capture differences in diabetes care practices. The quality of diabetes care may also differ by type of health care organization (47,48,49). In
