Chapter 39: Medication Use and Self-Care Practices in Persons With Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, adults, medication, years, type, age, care, glucose, medications, type diabetes, age years, health, use, diagnosed, diagnosed diabetes


reported receiving advice to control weight compared to 29.1% of adults with BMI in the lowest quartile. Those who did receive advice on how to control or lose weight, exercise, or reduce calories from fat, were 4–8 times more likely to report practicing these behaviors compared to those who did not receive this advice (51). MEDICATION ADHERENCE An additional aspect of diabetes self- care practices is medication adherence. Medication adherence is typically defined as whether or not a patient takes his or her medication as prescribed in terms of dosage, length of time, and frequency (52,53). Medication adherence or nonad­ herence among individuals with diabetes is likely influenced by a number of factors, including cost, comorbidities, number of medications, and health literacy (54). In a study of patients with diabetes in a managed care organization, medication nonadherence was associated with increased risk for adverse outcomes, including higher hospitalization rates. Medication nonadherence is also associ­ ated with emergency room visits. Analysis of the National Hospital Ambulatory Care Surveys 2006–2007 found that 0.13% of all emergency room visits were due to medication nonadherence. Diabetes was the primary diagnosis for 5.95% (or 25,395 visits) of all emergency room visits related to medication nonadherence (55). Just as medication nonadherence is associated with increased risk of adverse outcomes, medication adherence is associated with improved outcomes. One study found that individuals who prac­ ticed diabetes self-care practices were also more likely to have high medication adherence (56). PANCREAS AND ISLET CELL TRANSPLANTS Pancreas transplants are sometimes indicated for individuals who have type 1 diabetes and in rare cases for individuals with type 2 diabetes. No data are available on the intensity of multiple daily insulin injections for individuals prior to consid­ ering a pancreas transplant. The overall goal of pancreas transplants is to restore normoglycemia by replacing part of the lost beta cell mass. A pancreatic transplant involves considerable risk, since it requires immunosuppression medications and can be rejected by the recipient (57). This procedure is primarily indicated for individ­ uals with type 1 diabetes whose beta cells have been permanently destroyed (58). The pancreas in those with type 1 diabetes no longer produces insulin, whereas in people with type 2 diabetes, insulin production by the pancreas may still be possible. When successful, pancreatic transplants often mean that the patients no longer need daily insulin treatment. In the United States, the rate of pancreas transplants has
