Snakebite Envenomation and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, viper, acute, pituitary, bite, api, cases, hypopituitarism, adrenal, russell, hyponatremia, patients, delayed, clinical, envenomation


ABSTRACT Snakebite envenoming (SBE) is a life-threatening medical emergency encountered in tropical parts of Asia, Africa, and Latin America. Toxins in the venom cause local damage and multi-organ dysfunction, predominantly affecting neurological, hematological, and vascular systems. Endocrine anomalies are less frequently reported and often masked by more severe disorders. Anterior pituitary insufficiency is the most common endocrine manifestation and mainly observed after Russell’s viper ( Daboia russelii and D. siamensis ) bite. SBE-induced hypopituitarism can manifest early or have a delayed presentation. Primary adrenal insufficiency, hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hyperkalemia, and hyperglycemia are also described. These complications are uncommon and under-reported, as SBE occurs in remote areas and medical facilities for endocrine assessment might not be available. Timely identification and management of these problems are critical for optimum medical outcome. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Snakebite envenoming (SBE) occurs predominantly in rural parts of Asia, Africa, and Latin America ( 1 , 2 ). The World Health Organization (WHO) included SBE in the priority list of neglected tropical diseases in 2018. According to the WHO, 4.5–5.4 million people get bitten by snakes annually, but many cases are not reported as people living in remote areas with limited healthcare access are affected. Clinical illness from SBE develops in 1.8–2.7 million, and the annual mortality is around 81,000 to 138,000 ( 3 ). Toxins in snake venom can cause local tissue destruction, neurological damage, hemorrhagic tendency, renal failure, and cardiovascular compromise. Endocrine dysfunctions are uncommon but can have ominous consequences if not recognized. Anterior pituitary insufficiency (API) after Russell’s viper (RV) envenomation (RVE) is the most common endocrine manifestation of SBE. Electrolyte disturbances and hyperglycemia are the other complications described ( 4 ). Timely recognition and appropriate management of endocrine derangements like hypocortisolism and electrolyte imbalances can save lives. SPECIES OF SNAKES AND SNAKE VENOM The medically relevant poisonous snakes usually belong to the Elapidae and Viperidae families. Rare cases of envenoming from Atractaspididae and Colubridae families are also described. The common Elapidae snakes include cobras, mambas, kraits, coral snakes, death adders, and sea snakes. The Viperidae snakes of significance are vipers, including RV, adders, asps, and pit vipers. The general notion that Elapidae envenomation results in neuroparalytic manifestation and Viperidae bite induce local reaction and vasculotoxicity does not always hold. Snake venoms contain mixtures of polypeptides, amines, carbohydrates, lipids, phospholipids,
