Snakebite Envenomation and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, viper, acute, pituitary, bite, api, cases, hypopituitarism, adrenal, russell, hyponatremia, patients, delayed, clinical, envenomation


notion that Elapidae envenomation results in neuroparalytic manifestation and Viperidae bite induce local reaction and vasculotoxicity does not always hold. Snake venoms contain mixtures of polypeptides, amines, carbohydrates, lipids, phospholipids, nucleosides, and minerals. The principal constituents are proteins belonging to the four families: phospholipase A2, metalloprotease, serine protease, and three-finger peptides. Additional secondary protein families include cysteine-rich secretory proteins, l-amino acid oxidases, kunitz peptides, C-type lectins/snaclecs, disintegrins, and natriuretic peptides ( 5 ). Snake venom toxicity can be classified into three main categories: vasculotoxic, neurotoxic, and cytotoxic. Various proteins with enzymatic properties such as phospholipase A2, hyaluronidases, peptidases, and metalloprotease can cause local tissue destruction. Phospholipase A2, metalloproteases, and other protein components can cause neurotoxicity, damage the coagulation cascade, induce muscle necrosis, and sometimes exert cardiotoxic and nephrotoxic effects ( 6 ). Cardiac compromise and acute kidney injury (AKI) can also emerge as secondary complications. Endocrine disorders after SBE are uncommon and pathophysiologic mechanisms are incompletely understood. ANTERIOR PITUITARY INSUFFICIENCY Anterior pituitary insufficiency (API) is the most well-recognized endocrine manifestation of SBE. Most cases are from Sri Lanka, India, and Myanmar and occur after RVE ( Daboia russelii and D. siamensis ). Etiology Wolff first narrated SBE-induced hypopituitarism in 1958 after bite from Bothrops jararacussu ( 7 ). The first description of API following RVE in the Indian subcontinent came from Eapen et al . ( 8 ). Although RV is found in many south Asian countries, most accounts of RVE-induced API are almost exclusively from Myanmar, India, and Sri Lanka ( 9 – 16 ). It could be related to the geographic variation in venom composition among the same snake species. The incidence of API in a study from northern India was 14.6% (6/41) among patients admitted with vasculotoxic snakebites (presumed RVE) ( 12 ). Pathophysiology The pituitary gland is a highly vascular structure enclosed in a bony cavity called the sella tursica. The low-pressure hypothalamic-pituitary portal system originating from the superior hypophyseal artery provides blood supply to the anterior pituitary. The hypophyseal portal system is susceptible to compressive effects from an enlarged or engorged gland and renders the anterior pituitary vulnerable to vascular insults after stimulation from any cause. Sheehan’s syndrome and RVE-induced hypopituitarism share similar pathophysiology ( 16 , 17 ). In Sheehan’s syndrome, hemorrhagic infarction of the pregnancy-induced hyperplastic gland occurs during severe postpartum bleeding-related hypovolemic shock ( 18 ). Predisposition to vascular damage in RVE
