Snakebite Envenomation and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, viper, acute, pituitary, bite, api, cases, hypopituitarism, adrenal, russell, hyponatremia, patients, delayed, clinical, envenomation


16 , 17 ). In Sheehan’s syndrome, hemorrhagic infarction of the pregnancy-induced hyperplastic gland occurs during severe postpartum bleeding-related hypovolemic shock ( 18 ). Predisposition to vascular damage in RVE could result from gland engorgement due to a generalized increase in capillary permeability as in capillary leak syndrome ( 19 – 21 ). Additionally, the toxins in RV venom can stimulate pituitary cells as suggested by in-vitro studies, further increasing the susceptibility to damage ( 22 ). The vascular supply to an engorged and stimulated gland might be compromised due to microthrombi deposition or hemorrhage from disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) ( 16 , 23 ), circulatory or hypovolemic shock ( 14 ), thrombotic occlusion of major vessels including cerebral venous thrombosis ( 24 , 25 ), and increased intracranial pressure ( 14 ). Autoimmune damage has been postulated to contribute to delayed pituitary injury in Sheehan’s syndrome ( 26 , 27 ). The role of similar immune-mediated damage in the development of delayed hypopituitarism after RVE has not been studied. Clinical Features ACUTE HYPOPITUITARISM Acute onset API has been observed after RVE in several series and can present as early as the first day ( 11 , 12 , 15 ). In one series of nine patients, API occurred after a median interval of nine days (range 2-14 days) ( 15 ). The usual manifestations of RVE include local reaction, coagulopathy, neuromuscular paralysis, and AKI ( 28 , 29 ). Circulatory shock, another feature of RVE, is multifactorial in etiology ( 14 ). In the acute phase, adrenal insufficiency (AI) dominates the clinical presentation of API. The symptoms of AI often get masked by other systemic effects of RVE. Clinical clues could be refractory hypotension and the presence of hypoglycemia or hyponatremia. Central hypothyroidism may coexist with secondary AI and is diagnosed if serum thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) is low or normal along with decreased serum thyroxine levels. TSH can also get suppressed due to sick euthyroid syndrome and glucocorticoid administration. The diagnosis of central hypothyroidism is difficult to discern in the acute phase, and a follow-up test after recovery is necessary for confirmation. Reassessment of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) and additional evaluation of the gonadotrophic and growth hormone (GH) secretion should be performed after 4-6 weeks. Acute hypopituitarism is sometimes transient, but the typical outcome is a permanent disease ( 12 , 13 ). DELAYED HYPOPITUITARISM API is often diagnosed years after
