Snakebite Envenomation and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, viper, acute, pituitary, bite, api, cases, hypopituitarism, adrenal, russell, hyponatremia, patients, delayed, clinical, envenomation


performed after 4-6 weeks. Acute hypopituitarism is sometimes transient, but the typical outcome is a permanent disease ( 12 , 13 ). DELAYED HYPOPITUITARISM API is often diagnosed years after RVE ( 30 – 33 ). The symptoms depend on the hormone axis involved and the extent of hormone deficiency ( 34 ). Delayed hypopituitarism often presents as secondary amenorrhea and infertility in females. In males, hypogonadotropic hypogonadism usually manifests as loss of libido and erectile dysfunction. Loss of secondary sexual characteristics can be present in both genders. Standard features of secondary hypothyroidism include cold intolerance, weight gain, constipation, dry skin, and hoarseness. Secondary AI presents as fatigue, loss of appetite, and orthostatic dizziness ( 34 ). Involvement in early childhood can cause stunted growth and delayed or absent puberty ( 31 ). In a case series of delayed API, secondary hypothyroidism and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism were present in all the cases (8/8); and GH and secondary AI were present in 75% (6/8) ( 30 ). Table 1 depicts the recent case series describing API. Predictors of Hypopituitarism The presence of acute kidney injury (AKI) most consistently correlates with the development of API after RVE ( 13 , 30 ). Bhat et al . found that in patients (n=51) with vasculotoxic snakebite-associated AKI, the risk factors for API were younger age, the number of hemodialysis sessions, and 20-min whole blood clotting time ( 13 ). There was a history of AKI in 75% of cases of delayed hypopituitarism in another series ( 30 ). In a study describing nine patients with acute API, the predictors were multi-organ dysfunction, lower platelet counts, and more bleeding with a requirement for transfusions ( 15 ). However, coagulopathy, AKI, hemodialysis, and clinical severity scores failed to show any association with hypopituitarism in a prospective study ( 12 ). Table 1. Case Series of Hypopituitarism After Snakebite Envenoming View in own window Author, year Region Snake species No. of patients Onset, Time Clinical features/ hormone axes involved/ comments Tun Pe, 1987( 10 ) Myanmar Not defined Snakebite – 220 Acute API – 3 PH (on autopsy) – 4 Delayed API – 11 Acute: 21 hr - 9 d Delayed: 2 wk - 24 yr Acute - C, GH, PRL Delayed Symptomatic - 7 Asymptomatic – 4 Proby, 1989 ( 35 ) Myanmar RV Acute API (probable) – 20 Delayed API – 11/12 Acute, NA Delayed –
