Snakebite Envenomation and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, viper, acute, pituitary, bite, api, cases, hypopituitarism, adrenal, russell, hyponatremia, patients, delayed, clinical, envenomation


areas, if a delay is anticipated in obtaining the cortisol report, hydrocortisone replacement should be started in suspected cases. The different criteria that have been used to diagnose hypocortisolism in the acute phase are (a) fasting serum cortisol < 3 μg/dL (83 nmol/L) ( 13 ), (b) random serum cortisol < 5 μg/dL (138 nmol/L) in suspected pituitary apoplexy ( 37 ), (c) random serum cortisol < 10 μg/dL (275 nmol/L) in a critically ill patient ( 14 ), (d) post-cosyntropin peak cortisol < 18 μg/dl (500 nmol/L), and (e) post-cosyntropin delta cortisol < 9 μg/dL (250 nmol/L) ( 38 ). Note in very ill patients serum cortisol levels can be artifactually low secondary to a decrease in cortisol binding protein. The interpretation of the thyroid function test can be problematic in the acute phase. Low luteinizing hormone (LH), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), and prolactin might be indicative but not diagnostic of API. The gonadal axis and sex hormone secretion (testosterone in males and estradiol in females) is usually suppressed during any severe illness. The pituitary function should be reassessed after 4-6 weeks of recovery. The MRI findings reveal a normal gland on imaging in acute cases ( 11 , 12 , 15 ). Pituitary hemorrhage has been demonstrated in autopsy findings but is seldom observed in imaging studies ( 15 ). Table 2. Features Suggestive Of or Associated with Acute Hypopituitarism after Russell’s Viper Bite View in own window Clinical features Laboratory results Imaging Persistent or unexplained hypotension Hypoglycemia Pituitary hemorrhage or infarct on MRI Acute kidney injury Hyponatremia Capillary leak syndrome Disseminated intravascular coagulation DELAYED HYPOPITUITARISM Acute hypopituitarism may progress to chronic disease or manifest insidiously years later ( 11 , 12 , 30 ). It may be prudent to perform periodic surveillance to rule out the development of API following RVE. Hypogonadism has been described in 100% of cases, central hypothyroidism in 96.4%, secondary AI in 82%, and GH deficiency in 77% ( 30 ). Central diabetes insipidus (CDI) is very rare and discussed next. The clinical presentation depends on the age, the hormone axes involved, and the mode of onset. The tests recommended for the diagnosis of pituitary hormone deficiency are outlined in table 3 . However, facilities for the dynamic tests may not be available in remote areas where SBE is prevalent ( 34 ). MRI usually reveals a normal pituitary during the initial year, but
