Snakebite Envenomation and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, viper, acute, pituitary, bite, api, cases, hypopituitarism, adrenal, russell, hyponatremia, patients, delayed, clinical, envenomation


supplementation for hypothyroidism should be started only after correcting AI. There is a risk of precipitating adrenal crisis because of the accelerated metabolic clearance of cortisol, if thyroxine is administered before treatment of AI ( 39 ). Monitoring of electrolytes, and slow correction of hyponatremia when present, in order to prevent central pontine myelinolysis, are important adjuncts. If oral intake is proper and the patient is hemodynamically stable, intravenous hydrocortisone can be substituted by oral glucocorticoids. Hormonal evaluation of the entire pituitary axes should be performed after 4-6 weeks of recovery. Replacement of deficient hormones as per standard practice should be instituted if API persists ( 34 ). Post-mortem Findings Pituitary hemorrhage and ischemic necrosis have been described in autopsy studies of 43% (36/84) cases of RVE in Myanmar ( 40 ). Areas of ischemic necrosis with hemorrhage at the center were observed in studies from India ( 15 ). Deposition of fibrin microthrombi in the pituitary and other organs, including the kidney, suggests a possible role of DIC in the pathogenesis of API ( 23 ). DIABETES INSIPIDUS Involvement of the posterior pituitary gland is exceedingly rare in SBE. There are only a few case reports of central diabetes insipidus (CDI) after RVE ( 13 , 31 , 41 , 42 ). The posterior pituitary receives direct arterial supply from the inferior hypophyseal artery and is resistant to vascular damage. On the other hand, the anterior gland is susceptible to vascular compromise as it is supplied by the low-pressure hypophyseal-portal system ( 43 ). Moreover, CDI occurs when more than 80% of arginine vasopressin (AVP)-producing hypothalamic magnocellular neurons are lost. The posterior pituitary acts as a storage and secretory organ, and persistent CDI ensues only in the presence of significant damage to the hypothalamus ( 44 ). Polyuria, a cardinal feature of CDI, may be obscured due to concomitant hypocortisolism and manifest only after glucocorticoid replacement ( 45 ). CDI should be treated with nasal or oral desmopressin. ADRENAL DISORDERS Etiopathogenesis Secondary AI from hypopituitarism is the classically described adrenal disorder resulting from SBE. Primary AI is exceptionally uncommon, though adrenal hemorrhage (AH) has been described in imaging studies and autopsy findings. There are cases of AH occurring after RVE and saw scale viper ( Echis carinatus ) bite ( 40 , 46 , 47 ). The pathophysiology of AH is related to DIC and has been postulated to
