Snakebite Envenomation and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, viper, acute, pituitary, bite, api, cases, hypopituitarism, adrenal, russell, hyponatremia, patients, delayed, clinical, envenomation


RVE and saw scale viper ( Echis carinatus ) bite ( 40 , 46 , 47 ). The pathophysiology of AH is related to DIC and has been postulated to resemble Waterhouse–Friderichsen syndrome ( 48 ). The adrenal gland is a highly vascular structure that derives its arterial supply from three arteries but is drained by only one adrenal vein and has a dense internal network of capillaries ( 49 ). The causal factors behind predisposition to AH after RVE are summarized in table 4 ( 14 , 50 , 51 ). Table 4. Factors Predisposing to Hemorrhage after Russell’s Viper Envenomation View in own window Intrinsic predisposition of adrenal vascular structure due to arterial supply by 3 vessels but drainage by one vein Rich subcapsular plexus with limited drainage by venules forming a “dam” Disseminated intravascular coagulation and hemorrhagic toxins in the venom increase bleeding tendency Formation of microthrombi in venules impair venous drainage and cause pooling of blood Pooling of blood due to capillary leak syndrome Stress-induced trophic effect of adrenocorticotrophic hormone induces adrenal cortical hyperplasia and increase vascularity Stress-induced catecholamine secretion causes adrenal venous constriction resulting in pooling of blood in the adrenal gland Diagnosis And Treatment AH has been described in 36% of cases in an autopsy series, though primary AI is rare ( 40 ). Refractory hypotension, hypoglycemia, hyponatremia and hyperkalemia should raise suspicion of primary AI. The presence of associated secondary AI can confound the diagnosis. Bilateral AH with transient AI has been described following RVE. The hemorrhage and adrenal function resolved in weeks ( 47 ). Cases depicting chronic AI have been published after vasculotoxic SBE ( 12 ). Diagnosis and treatment are similar to secondary AI; the primary differentiating point is elevated plasma ACTH. Mineralocorticoid supplementation may be additionally required in primary AI. HYPERGLYCEMIA Etiopathogenesis Hyperglycemia, an infrequent endocrine complication after SBE, has been described following both elapid ( Bungarus multicinctus multicinctus ) and viper envenomation ( Vipera ammodytes ammodytes, European viper spp) ( 52 – 54 ). In rat models, common krait ( Bungarus caeruleus ) venom produces hyperglycemia ( 55 ). Intraperitoneal injection of saw-scaled viper ( Echis carinatus ) venom in rats suppressed plasma insulin and depleted liver glycogen stores ( 56 ). The hyperglycemic effect of Egyptian cobra ( Naja haje ) was also associated with concomitant depletion of liver and kidney glycogen stores. The mechanism of hyperglycemia
