Snakebite Envenomation and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, viper, acute, pituitary, bite, api, cases, hypopituitarism, adrenal, russell, hyponatremia, patients, delayed, clinical, envenomation


stores ( 56 ). The hyperglycemic effect of Egyptian cobra ( Naja haje ) was also associated with concomitant depletion of liver and kidney glycogen stores. The mechanism of hyperglycemia is presumed to be triggered by a massive surge of catecholamines, a phenomenon observed after scorpion envenomation and in pheochromocytoma ( 4 , 57 ). Scorpion toxins stimulate sodium and inhibit potassium channels leading to intense and persistent excitation of the autonomic nervous system and release of neurotransmitters from the adrenal medulla, activating parasympathetic (early hours) and sympathetic nerve endings (4–48 hours). Catecholamine-mediated activation of the alpha receptors inhibits insulin secretion and contributes to hyperglycemia ( 54 , 58 ). Clinical Features and Management In a series of 83 children, viper envenomation resulted in hyperglycemia starting 4 hours after the bite, was moderate in severity, and usually transient. Moreover, hyperglycemia at presentation was a marker of high-grade envenomation ( 54 ). Severe hyperglycemia up to 480 mg/dl (26.7 mmol/L) occurred in a 45-day baby after two hours of bite from a nose-horned viper ( V. a. ammodytes ). ( 53 ). A retrospective study from Taiwan found hyperglycemia in 15% (7/44) patients of Bungarus multicinctus envenomation. Only one of them had persistent diabetes after recovery ( 52 ). Acute pancreatitis can result from the bite of the adder ( Vipera berus ), but associated hyperglycemia was not observed ( 59 , 60 ). Insulin and other antihyperglycemic drugs should be administered for management of hyperglycemia as and when necessary. ELECTROLYTE DISTURBANCES Hyponatremia ETIOPATHOGENESIS Envenomation by Malayan krait ( Bungarus candidus ), banded krait ( Bungarus fasciatus )), and vipers can result in hyponatremia ( 61 – 68 ). Hyponatremia sometimes occur secondary to anterior pituitary insufficiency (API) after vasculotoxic envenoming but it has also been reported in the absence of API ( 4 ). Initial descriptions suggested that the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) could be responsible for hyponatremia ( 64 ). However, subsequent accounts revealed that urinary salt loss from natriuretic peptides in venom, rather than SIADH, is the pathogenic mechanism. The urinary salt loss is secondary to venom-derived natriuretic peptides, similar to endogenous natriuretic peptides, and acts on the renal tubules to decrease sodium and water reabsorption ( 69 ). Cerebral salt wasting has also been postulated to cause hyponatremia ( 61 ). An unusually high prevalence of hyponatremia (89%) was observed in a series of
