Snakebite Envenomation and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, viper, acute, pituitary, bite, api, cases, hypopituitarism, adrenal, russell, hyponatremia, patients, delayed, clinical, envenomation


reabsorption ( 69 ). Cerebral salt wasting has also been postulated to cause hyponatremia ( 61 ). An unusually high prevalence of hyponatremia (89%) was observed in a series of 14 patients with berg adder ( Bitis atropos ) bite in South Africa ( 67 ). Many-banded krait ( Bungarus multicinctus ) envenomation caused hyponatremia in 42% of cases ( 63 ). Natriuretic peptides are found in the venom of Elapidae species such as Bungarus candidus, Bungarus multicinctus, Dendroaspi sangusticeps, Oxyuranus microlepidotus, Pseudonaja textillis, and Pseudechis australis and a few Viperidae species e.g. Hypnale hypnale, Psudocerastus persicus, and Macrovipera lebetina ( 66 ). CLINICAL FEATURES The presentation of hyponatremia depends on the severity and acuteness of onset. The clinical profile ranges from asymptomatic hyponatremia to varying alteration in sensorium to frank coma ( 61 , 62 ). Seizures occur in severe cases ( 62 ). Usually there are associated systemic features but isolated hyponatremia, hypovolemia, urinary salt loss, and generalized tonic-clonic seizures, following hump-nosed pit viper bite ( Hypnale hypnale ) has been described ( 66 ). In a case series of 42 patients admitted in Vietnam, 31 people (73.8%) had hyponatremia, the lowest values occurring an average of two days after the bite. Approximately 42–50% of patients who did not receive antivenom developed significant hyponatremia (< 130 mmol/L) 2–3 days post-bite. ( 70 ). Another series of 78 cases of krait bite from Thailand reported hyponatremia in 17.6%, with severe hyponatremia (< 120 mmol/L) developing in four pediatric patients, two of whom developed seizures ( 71 ). MANAGEMENT Hyponatremia resulting from natriuretic peptides should be corrected by intravenous saline administration. SIADH is not the cause of hyponatremia, and fluid restriction is not recommended. If chronic hyponatremia is suspected, the correction rate should not exceed 10-12 meq/L in any 24 hours to avoid osmotic demyelination ( 72 ). If primary or secondary AI is the cause of hyponatremia, glucocorticoid supplementation is necessary. Hypokalemia ETIOPATHOGENESIS Hypokalemia results from both elapid ( 73 , 74 ) and viper envenomation ( 75 – 77 ). Patients with hypokalemia after RV, common krait ( Bungarus caeruleus ), and Balkan adder ( Vipera berus ) bite demonstrated low trans-tubular potassium gradient (TTKG) ruling out renal potassium loss. The intracellular redistribution of potassium has been suggested as the likely pathophysiological mechanism, as gastrointestinal loss was also unlikely. Beta-adrenergic stimulation from toxin-mediated autonomic dysfunction leads to the
