Snakebite Envenomation and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, viper, acute, pituitary, bite, api, cases, hypopituitarism, adrenal, russell, hyponatremia, patients, delayed, clinical, envenomation


potassium loss. The intracellular redistribution of potassium has been suggested as the likely pathophysiological mechanism, as gastrointestinal loss was also unlikely. Beta-adrenergic stimulation from toxin-mediated autonomic dysfunction leads to the intracellular shift of potassium and is the likely cause of hypokalemia ( 74 , 75 ). Concomitant hypomagnesemia and high urinary magnesium excretion were also observed in patients with hypokalemia, following Viperidae bite, presumably resulting from the direct toxic action of venom on the renal tubules ( 77 ). A high incidence (71%) of hypokalemia (<3.5 mmol/l) was found in a series of 210 patients from Sri Lanka during the first 48 hours. It was accompanied by metabolic acidosis but not respiratory alkalosis ( 78 ). CLINICAL FEATURES AND MANAGEMENT Hypokalemia manifests as muscular cramps or weakness, constipation, abdominal bloating, polyuria, and sometimes cause life-threatening complications like arrhythmias, rhabdomyolysis, hypokalemic paralysis, diaphragmatic palsy, and respiratory failure ( 75 ). The treatment strategy is similar to that of hypokalemic periodic paralysis. Rebound hyperkalemia is a potential complication during recovery. Potassium should be replaced orally or intravenously, along with appropriate monitoring. Magnesium deficit should be corrected if present ( 79 ). Hyperkalemia ETIOPATHOGENESIS Hyperkalemia can complicate envenomation by nose-horned viper (Vipera ammodytes ammodytes), European viper ( Vipera berus ), and hump-nosed viper ( Hypnale hypnale ) ( 53 , 80 – 83 ). Severe envenomation from these snakes causes hyperkalemia secondary to rhabdomyolysis and AKI, and can be fatal ( 53 , 80 ). Hyperkalemia was present in 7% of cases of SBE in 258 patients from Thailand ( 77 ). Type 4 renal tubular acidosis (T4RTA) is another possible cause of hyperkalemia. It was described during the recovery phase of bite by hump-nosed viper ( 81 , 82 ). Renal biopsy from these patients showed tubular atrophy and focal segmental glomerulosclerosis pattern ( 81 ). The underlying cause could be thrombotic microangiopathy caused by toxins in venom leading to patchy cortical necrosis with delayed or partial recovery of renal functions ( 83 ). CLINICAL FEATURES AND MANAGEMENT Hyperkalemia associated with rhabdomyolysis and AKI can cause life-threatening arrhythmias. The presence of hyperkalemia along with hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis and low trans-tubular potassium gradient (TTKG) is suggestive of T4RTA and has been described in victims of hump-nosed viper bites during recovery from AKI. Fludrocortisone has been used successfully in such cases. T4RTA, in most cases, was transient ( 82 ). Hyperkalemia associated with rhabdomyolysis
