Zhang et al. Journal of Translational Medicine (2023) 21:145 Journal of
KEYWORDS: gut, adj, matrine, mice, cums, group, depression, microbiota, brain, metabolites, intestinal, fig, gut microbiota, analysis, bdnf


which permits use, sharing, adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article’s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article’s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory licence, visit The Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication waiver ( mons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) applies to the data made available in this article, unless otherwise stated in a credit line to the data. Following the publication of Jane A. Foster’s article Materials and methods on how the microbiome influences anxiety and depres- Animals sion through the gut–brain axis in 2013 , the inter- The experimentations were performed in male ICR mice action between the gut microbiota and the brain has weighing (18–22 g) obtained from Liaoning Changsheng gradually become the focus of neuroscience research. Biotechnology Co., Ltd. (Changchun, China). The mice Successive studies have reported that the gut micro- were housed in the state of controlled environmental biota of patients with depression is different from conditions (12 h light/dark cycle; 21 °C 1 °C tempera- ± that of healthy people , and depression-like behav- ture; 52% 2% relative humidity), and given a standard ± iors lead to changes in the diversity and abundance of diet and water ad libitum. gut microbiota , which suggests that depression affects the composition of the gut microbiota. In addi- Chronic unpredictable mild stress and drug treatments tion, transplanting the fecal microbiota of patients CUMS procedure was performed as described previ- with major depression into sterile mice exhibited ously with a slight modification . After one week of depression symptoms , and the recovery of the gut adaptation, the mice were housed in a separate cage and microbiota alleviates depression , indicating that exposed four weeks of CUMS procedure. The detailed changes in the gut microbiota may promote the onset CUMS stressors are as follows: food deprivation for 12 h; of depression and play a vital role in the pathophysi- water deprivation for 12 h; lights on at night for 12 h; ology of depression. It is worth noting that metabolic empty cage for 12 h; wet bedding for
