Zhang et al. Journal of Translational Medicine (2023) 21:145 Journal of
KEYWORDS: gut, adj, matrine, mice, cums, group, depression, microbiota, brain, metabolites, intestinal, fig, gut microbiota, analysis, bdnf


pathophysi- water deprivation for 12 h; lights on at night for 12 h; ology of depression. It is worth noting that metabolic empty cage for 12 h; wet bedding for 12 h; confinement disorders have recently been recognized as a charac- in a tube for 2 h; traffic noise (70–90 dB) for 6 h; cage teristic of depression, in which the gut microbiota tilting for 12 h (45°); exposure to a stroboscope for 12 h; leads to changes in the intestinal metabolome , foreign body stimulation for 6 h; crowding for 12 h (ten thereby alleviating intestinal metabolic disorders has mice within one cage); level shaking for 15 min; food and become a potential target of antidepressant. The gut water deprivation for 24 h (Additional file 1: Table S1). In microbiota intimately connects the gut and the brain, brief, two different types of mild stressor are applied to and regulates the physiology and cognitive function of mice every day, which varied from day to day to make the the brain through neural, endocrine, or immune path- stress procedure unpredictable. ways . Especially in CUMS-induced mice, the Mice were randomly divided into six groups with 10 inflammatory immune response is closely involved in in each group: Control group (Con, 0.9% physiologi- the bidirectional communication between the gut and cal saline), CUMS model group (CUMS, 0.9% physi- the brain . However, the pathogenesis of depres- ological saline), CUMS imipramine (CUMS IMI, + + sion is complicated that the drugs used clinically still 30 mg/kg), CUMS Low/Medium/High-dose matrine + have the problem of single therapeutic direction and (CUMS 15 mg/kg; 30 mg/kg; 60 mg/kg MA). Matrine + unsatisfactory therapeutic effects. and imipramine were purchased from Yuanye Biological Matrine is a quinolizidine alkaloid derived from the Co., Ltd. (Shanghai, China) and prepared in 0.9% physi- traditional Chinese medicine S. alopecuroides. Stud- ological saline. Imipramine was used as a positive con- ies indicate that matrine has anti-inflammatory and trol in this study. Except for the intraperitoneal injection neuroprotective effects , and exerts antide- of the mice in the imipramine group, the mice in other pressant-like effects on CUMS-induced depression groups were given intragastric administration. After the mice by promoting hippocampal PI3K/Akt/mTOR CUMS mouse depression model was successfully estab- signaling . In addition, our previous studies have lished, matrine and imipramine were administered every shown that the total alkaloids of S. alopecuroides with morning at a
