Zhang et al. Journal of Translational Medicine (2023) 21:145 Journal of
KEYWORDS: gut, adj, matrine, mice, cums, group, depression, microbiota, brain, metabolites, intestinal, fig, gut microbiota, analysis, bdnf


was successfully estab- signaling . In addition, our previous studies have lished, matrine and imipramine were administered every shown that the total alkaloids of S. alopecuroides with morning at a fixed time (9:00–10:00), and the CUMS pro- matrine as one of the main components can improve cedure was performed 30 min after the drugs were given. the depression in CUMS-induced mice via modulat- The specific experimental time schedule of this study is ing the gut microbiota . Accordingly, the purpose shown in Fig. 1A. of present study is to investigate whether the improve- ment effect of matrine on the depression-like behavior Body weight and behavioral test of CUMS-induced model mice involves gut microbiota Body weight through 16S rRNA sequencing, metabolomic detec- The body weight (BW) of mice was recorded every day, tion, and multiple biological detection techniques, and and the weight at week 0 was used as the baseline value. to explore its probable pathways in the “microbiota– The change in BW in week 6 was calculated as follows: gut–brain” axis. the change in BW/baseline BW 100%. × Sucrose preference test Novelty‑suppressed feeding test The sucrose preference test (SPT) was conducted accord- The novelty-suppressed feeding test (NSFT) was carried ing to previously described . As shown in Fig. 1A, out as previously described with slight modification . the SPT was performed at four time points: the adapta- Briefly, the test was performed for 2 consecutive days: tion period (week 0), before the drug treatment (weeks 1 the first day is the adaptation period and animals were and 4) and before the animals were sacrificed (week 6). individually placed in a black open box for 10 min. After First, train the mice for 48 h to adapt to the 1% sucrose 24 h of food deprivation, three food pills were placed in (Chemical Industry Group Co., Ltd., Beijing, China) solu- the center of the open box on the second day, and then tion (w/v) and avoid the preference for bottle placement: the animal was placed in a corner of the box (keeping two bottles of 1% sucrose water were given each cage for the same position and direction each time), and test for 24 h adaptation, replaced one bottle of 1% sucrose water 5 min. The latency to feed (the time from the start of the with pure water for 12 h, and then exchange the positions test to the first
