Zhang et al. Journal of Translational Medicine (2023) 21:145 Journal of
KEYWORDS: gut, adj, matrine, mice, cums, group, depression, microbiota, brain, metabolites, intestinal, fig, gut microbiota, analysis, bdnf


sucrose water 5 min. The latency to feed (the time from the start of the with pure water for 12 h, and then exchange the positions test to the first bite of the food) was observed and record. of the two bottles for 12 h. Next, the mice were deprived The equipment was cleaned with 10% ethanol after each of food and water for 24 h. Then SPT was performed: two test. new bottles were randomly placed, filled with 1% sucrose water and pure water, respectively. The mice drank freely Sample preparation for 2 h, and the water bottles were weighed before and After the last administration, the mice were sacrificed after placing them. Sucrose preference rate was calcu- by decapitation. The blood was collected with a vacuum lated as follows: the intake of sucrose solution/the total tube (containing ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid) and amount of liquid consumed 100%. centrifuged (4 °C, 3000 rpm, 15 min), and then the serum × was stored at 80 °C until assay. Their whole brains were − quickly removed and placed in ice-cold physiological Forced swimming test saline, the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex tissue were The forced swimming test (FST) was carried out as previ- rapidly dissected on the ice surface and immediately fro- ously described . Briefly, each mouse was individually zen in liquid nitrogen until assay. The intestinal contents placed in a cylindrical plastic container (25 cm height, of the cecum were rapidly collected and immediately 10 cm diameter) filled with 20 cm deep of 25 1 °C stored by liquid nitrogen for later DNA and metabolites ± water in a quiet environment and forced to swim for extraction. 6 min. Record and count the immobility time after 4 min by digital camera. After the test, each mouse was care- Enzyme‑linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) analysis fully dried and the equipment was rinsed with water. The ELISA kits (Enzyme-linked Biotechnology Co., Ltd., time in which the mice gave up struggling to float on the Shanghai, China)were employed to measure the concen- water surface or only slightly swing their limbs to prevent trations of serotonin (5-HT), norepinephrine (NE), dopa- immersion in the water was counted as immobility time. mine (DA), diamine oxidase (DAO), lipopolysaccharide (LPS), interleukin-1β (IL-1β), interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), and brain-derived neuro- Open field test trophic factor (BDNF). The experimental operation was The open field test (OFT) was performed in accord- carried
