Zhang et al. Journal of Translational Medicine (2023) 21:145 Journal of
KEYWORDS: gut, adj, matrine, mice, cums, group, depression, microbiota, brain, metabolites, intestinal, fig, gut microbiota, analysis, bdnf


the coronal plane (5 μm tive and negative modes. The MS conditions were set thick) and subjected to immunofluorescence processing as follows: ion spray voltage: 5500 V; ion gas temper- ± according to the routine procedures in our laboratory. ature: 650 °C; ion gas pressure: 60 psi; curtain gas: 30 The primary antibody BDNF (1:400, Proteintech, USA) psi; declustered voltage: 60 V. The measurement proce- and Cy3-labeled fluorescent secondary antibody (1:1000; dures, acquisition and processing of UPLC-Q-TOF-MS Proteintech, USA) was used. The slides were observed are described in previous studies . under a confocal microscope (LSM880, Zeiss, Germany). The image was analyzed by Image J software for optical density. Statistical analysis 16S rRNA gene sequence data analysis: the Kruskal– Wallis test was carried out to compare the differences DNA extraction and 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis in alpha diversity between pairs of groups, including DNA was extracted from each intestinal content sam- Chao 1, Faith’s Phylogenetic diversity, and Shannon, ple (n = 8 per group) using DNeasy PowerWater Kit followed by Dunn’s multiple comparisons test with (QIAGEN, Inc., Netherlands) following manufacturer’s correction via Bonferroni. Then beta diversity was cal- protocol. The quantity and quality of extracted DNAs culated based on Bray-Curtis dissimilarity and visual- were measured using a NanoDrop ND-1000 spectro- ized using principal coordinate analysis (PCoA) and photometer (Thermo Fisher Scientific, Waltham, USA) unweighted pair group method with arithmetic mean and agarose gel electrophoresis, respectively. Then the (UPGMA). Permutational multivariate analysis of vari- V3–V4 hypervariable region of the 16S rRNA gene was ance (PERMANOVA) with 999 permutations was pre- PCR amplified using universal primers 338F and 806R formed to assess differences in beta diversity using . The PCR amplicons were purified, quantified, and adonis() function in vegan package . The P values sequenced on the Illumina NovaSeq-PE250 platform at for multiple comparisons were corrected using Bonfer- Shanghai Personal Biotechnology Co., Ltd., China. roni correction. The taxonomic changes at the phylum 16S rRNA sequences were analyzed using QIIME2 . and genus levels between different groups were visual- The DADA2 plugin in QIIME2 was used to quality ized as column plots by Metastats . Further, linear filtering, dereplicating and chimera filtering, as well as discriminant Analysis (LDA) effect size (LEfSe) was for generation of amplicon sequence variant (ASV) table implemented to identify different ASVs among different and representative sequences. Then the representative treatment groups. sequences were assigned based on the Greengenes
