Zhang et al. Journal of Translational Medicine (2023) 21:145 Journal of
KEYWORDS: gut, adj, matrine, mice, cums, group, depression, microbiota, brain, metabolites, intestinal, fig, gut microbiota, analysis, bdnf


for generation of amplicon sequence variant (ASV) table implemented to identify different ASVs among different and representative sequences. Then the representative treatment groups. sequences were assigned based on the Greengenes data- Metabolomics data analysis: Standardized metabo- base 13.8 . A tree was next generated, using the align- lomics data were fed to R package metaX for princi- to-tree-mafft-fasttree command, and Alpha diversity pal component analysis (PCA) and orthogonal partial were produced by QIIME2 core-metrics-phylogenetic least squares discriminant analysis (OPLS-DA). The pipeline. metabolites with VIP (Variable Importance in the Pro- jection) > 1 and p < 0.05 (student t test) were considered as significantly changed metabolites. In addition, Meta- Metabolite extraction and UPLC‑Q‑TOF‑MS analysis boAnalyst 3.0 ( ww.m etabo analy st.c a/) was The extraction and analysis of intestinal contents used to conduct pathway enrichment analysis for the metabolites (n 8 per group) was assisted by the Beijing = resulting significant differential metabolites and KEGG Allwegene Technology Co., Ltd. (Beijing, China). The ( ww.k egg.j p) was used to identify related path- metabolomics separation was performed on a Waters ways of differential metabolites. ACQUITY UPLC BEH Amide column (2.1 100 mm, × Spearman correlation analysis was used to explore 1.7 μm, Milford, Massachusetts, USA). The mobile the correlations between depression-related indicators phase consisted of 25 mM ammonium acetate and 25 and gut-related indicators, as well as brain-related indi- mM ammonium hydroxide in water (A) and acetoni- cators and gut-related indicators in mice. trile (B). The following mobile phase gradient is: 95% B, Statistical analysis of the remaining data: All data 0.5 min; 95–65% B, 0.5–7 min; 65–40% B, 7–8 min; 40% were expressed as the mean standard error of the ± B, 9 min; 40–95% B, 9–9.1 min; and 95% B, 12 min. The mean (SEM). One-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) flow rate was 0.5 mL/min. Injection volume was 2 µL was used for data processing. The p values for and the column temperature was maintained at 30 °C. multiple comparisons were corrected using Bonferroni neurotransmitters has been used as an important indi- correction. cator for evaluating depression . Thus, the levels of monoamine neurotransmitters (5-HT, NE, and DA) in the Results serum were detected. The results are shown in Fig. 1H, Matrine treatment alleviated the depression‑like behavior CUMS exposure significantly reduced (p 0.006, p adj = adj and promoted the release of monoamine neurotransmitter 9.17e 04, and p 0.007) the
