Zhang et al. Journal of Translational Medicine (2023) 21:145 Journal of
KEYWORDS: gut, adj, matrine, mice, cums, group, depression, microbiota, brain, metabolites, intestinal, fig, gut microbiota, analysis, bdnf


content of monoamine (Fig. 2D). At genus level, compared with the control (See figure on next page.) Fig. 2 The diversity and composition of gut microbiota in different groups. A Principal coordinate analysis (PCoA) plot of beta diversity in different groups by Bray-Curtis distance. Percentages of variance explained by first two axes explain were provided, accounting for 18.2% and 8.8%, respectively. B Unweighted pair group-method with arithmetic means (UPGMA) based on Bray-Curtis dissimilarity matrices. Groups with different letters are significantly different according to PERMANOVA (p < 0.05). C Taxonomic tree in packed circles. The circles represent phylum, class, adj order, family, and genus from outside to inside. The abundance of each ASV in the different treatment groups is displayed as a pie chart. D Relative abundances of the top ten ASVs at the phylum level. E Relative abundances of the top ten ASVs at the genus level. F Cladogram showed ASVs with LDA scores greater than 2 based on linear discriminant analysis effect size analysis Fig. 2 (See legend on previous page.) group, the relative abundances of Lactobacillus and Allo- demonstrated that there were clear differences between baculum were significantly decreased in the CUMS the three groups (Fig. 3A, B). group, accompanied by a significantly increased in the To find the differential metabolites between the groups, relative abundances of Rikenella and Odoribacter (all p a combination of VIP > 1 and p < 0.05 was screened in the adj 0.02; Fig. 2E). Compared with the CUMS group, the OPLS-DA. After comparing the control group and the = relative abundance of Lactobacillus (p 8.16e 04) in CUMS group, the top 20 differential metabolites with adj = − the matrine treatment group was increased, while the rel- VIP values were selected for display (Fig. 3C). Com- ative abundance of Helicobacter, Rikenella, Odoribacter, pared with the control group, the contents of 4 differen- and Ruminococcus was significantly decreased (all p tial metabolites in the CUMS group were significantly adj 0.03). Notably, among the microbiota with significant increased, while the contents of 16 differential metabo- = changes at the level of the top 10 genera in relative abun- lites decreased significantly. Similarly, the differential dance, Lactobacillus, Allobaculum, Turicibacter, Bifido- metabolites in the top 20 VIP values between the CUMS bacterium, and Ruminococcus are gram-positive bacteria, model group and the matrine-treated group were shown while Oscillospira, Helicobacter, Rikenella, Odoribacter, in Fig. 3E. Compared with the
