Zhang et al. Journal of Translational Medicine (2023) 21:145 Journal of
KEYWORDS: gut, adj, matrine, mice, cums, group, depression, microbiota, brain, metabolites, intestinal, fig, gut microbiota, analysis, bdnf


VIP values between the CUMS bacterium, and Ruminococcus are gram-positive bacteria, model group and the matrine-treated group were shown while Oscillospira, Helicobacter, Rikenella, Odoribacter, in Fig. 3E. Compared with the model group, the con- and Desulfovibrio are gram-negative bacteria. The CUMS tents of 16 differential metabolites increased significantly procedure reduced the total relative abundance of Gram- after matrine treatment, and the contents of 4 metabo- positive bacteria by more than 50%, while the relative lites including histamine decreased significantly. Notably, abundance of all Gram-negative bacteria was up-regu- histamine is closely related to the occurrence of inflam- lated. However, this situation was reversed by matrine mation, and the enriched metabolic pathway is inflamma- treatment, indicating that matrine treatment modu- tory mediator regulation of TRP channels . Excitingly, lated the gut microbiota composition in CUMS-induced in Additional file 1: Table S2, we found that after matrine depression mice. treatment, the change trend of differential metabolites Based on LEfSe, ASVs driving differences in gut micro- except Glu-Val-Arg, Trp(O)-Ile, UDP-d-galactose, Pyro- biota composition between different treatment groups Glu-Trp-Arg, Thr-Gly-Lys, Phe-Phe, and Ser-Thr-Lys can were analyzed. A total of 27 differences ASVs among be reversed. It reflects that matrine reversed most of the the four groups were identified (LDA > 2.0), of which 11 changes in gut metabolites in CUMS-induced depression were at the genus level (Fig. 2F). The results showed that mice. the different ASVs at the genus level were concentrated In addition to the top 20 differential metabolites in the in the CUMS group. In detail, the relative abundances VIP value, we found 7 differential metabolites related of Odoribacter, Rikenella, Lactococcus, Streptococcus, to amino acid metabolism: l-phenylalanine, l-tyrosine, Anaerotruncus, Clostridium, CC-115, and Helicobacter l-tryptophan, serotonin (5-HT), norepinephrine (NE), in CUMS group were significantly different from those dopamine (DA), and l-glutamine. l-Phenylalanine can in other groups. Lactobacillus and Denitromonas were be converted into l-tyrosine, and then into NE and DA the most abundant in matrine group. The dominant ASV . l-Tryptophan is the synthetic precursor of 5-HT, in the control group was Allobaculum. After analysis, it and its relative content in the intestine is negatively cor- was found that the differential ASVs in LEfSe (top 50 at related with intestinal inflammation . In addition the genus level) are Odoribacter, Rikenella, Lactobacillus, to reducing intestinal permeability, l-glutamine can also Streptococcus, Anaerotruncus, Clostridium, Allobaculum, reduce inflammation and form a strong intestinal bar- Denitromonas, Helicobacter. The changes
