Zhang et al. Journal of Translational Medicine (2023) 21:145 Journal of
KEYWORDS: gut, adj, matrine, mice, cums, group, depression, microbiota, brain, metabolites, intestinal, fig, gut microbiota, analysis, bdnf


the genus level) are Odoribacter, Rikenella, Lactobacillus, to reducing intestinal permeability, l-glutamine can also Streptococcus, Anaerotruncus, Clostridium, Allobaculum, reduce inflammation and form a strong intestinal bar- Denitromonas, Helicobacter. The changes in the compo- rier . As shown in Additional file 1: Fig. S4, compared sition and abundance of the above-mentioned mice gut with the control group, the levels of the 7 metabolites in microbiota among the different groups are especially the model group showed a decreasing trend. This trend shown in Additional file 1: Fig. S3. of amino acid disorders was reversed after matrine treat- ment, confirming the positive regulation of matrine on monoamine neurotransmitters, and implying the Matrine attenuates gut metabolite disturbances possibility of intestinal permeability destruction and and metabolic pathway changes in CUMS‑induced mice inflammation. Alters in the composition of gut microbes will lead to Furthermore, to understand the underlying molecular changes in gut metabolites , then the effect of matrine functions of the gut differential metabolites, metabolic on gut metabolites was further explored. First, princi- pathway analysis was conducted. Figure 3D, F show the pal component analysis (PCA) and orthogonal partial differential metabolic pathways (top 20 hits) between least squares discriminant analysis (OPLS-DA) were the control group and the CUMS group, and the CUMS used to analyze the metabolites of the control group, group and the matrine group, respectively. Among them, the CUMS group and the matrine group, and the results there are 14 identical metabolic pathways, namely: ABC Fig. 3 The composition and difference of gut metabolites in different groups, and the analysis of metabolic pathways. A, B The PCA and OPLS-DA analysis of control group, CUMS model group and matrine treatment group. C, E The VIP value plots of the differential metabolites (the top 20 of VIP value). D, F The plot of KEGG differential metabolic pathway (the top 20 hits number of metabolic pathways) transporters; biosynthesis of amino acids; pyrimidine absorption; galactose metabolism; vitamin digestion and metabolism; neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction; absorption; central carbon metabolism in cancer; mineral aminoacyl-tRNA biosynthesis; protein digestion and absorption; alanine, aspartate and glutamate metabolism; arginine biosynthesis; synaptic vesicle cycle; and pro- lactin signaling pathway. It is suggested that matrine restores most of the abnormal metabolic pathways caused by CUMS. To explore the correlation between depression-related indicators and gut-related indicators, Spearman cor- relation analysis was performed on gut metabolites, gut microbiota, and depression-like behaviors (Additional file 1: Fig. S5). We found
