Zhang et al. Journal of Translational Medicine (2023) 21:145 Journal of
KEYWORDS: gut, adj, matrine, mice, cums, group, depression, microbiota, brain, metabolites, intestinal, fig, gut microbiota, analysis, bdnf


explore the correlation between depression-related indicators and gut-related indicators, Spearman cor- relation analysis was performed on gut metabolites, gut microbiota, and depression-like behaviors (Additional file 1: Fig. S5). We found significant correlations between the above indicators, suggesting that the ameliorating effect of matrine on depressive-like behaviors in CUMS- induced mice involves modulation and restoration of gut microbiota and metabolites. However, the probable related mechanisms of matrine affecting the gut microbi- ota and metabolites in the treatment of depression need to be further confirmed. Matrine reduced the intestinal permeability marker and lowered the levels of LPS in depression‑like mice induced by CUMS Since CUMS induced the increase of Gram-negative bacteria (such as Odoribacter, Rikenella, Helicobacter, etc.) in the gut of mice, as well as altered amino acids and their metabolites (such as l-tryptophan, histamine, l-glutamine, etc.), which are closely related to intestinal barrier damage and intestinal inflammation [28–36]. Sub- sequent ELISA results of DAO, a marker of intestinal per- meability in serum, confirmed that the relative content of DAO (Fig. 4A, p 0.04) in the CUMS group was sig- adj = nificantly higher than that in the control group, suggest- ing that the intestinal permeability of CUMS-induced mice is increased. Since LPS is an important component of gram-negative bacteria, the relative level of LPS was tested. The results of LPS in serum showed that LPS in the CUMS group was significantly increased compared with the control group (Fig. 4B, p 5.68e 04), indi- adj = − cating that mice in the CUMS group may have intestinal inflammation and then release LPS into the blood. How- ever, matrine treatment reversed the increase in DAO (p 0.03 and p 0.006) and LPS (p 7.42e 04 adj = adj = adj = − and p 5.13e 04) level (ANOVA: DAO, F 5.76, adj = − = df 3, p 0.003; LPS, F 19.87, df 3, p 3.25e 06), = = = = = − indicating that matrine has anti-inflammatory effects, Fig. 4 The levels of DAO, LPS, and pro-inflammatory cytokines which in turn restores intestinal permeability and the in different groups. A–C The relative levels of DAO, LPS, and relative level of LPS. pro-inflammatory cytokines in serum. D, E The relative levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines in prefrontal cortex and hippocampus. Matrine lowered the levels of pro‑inflammatory cytokines Data are presented as the mean SEM (n 8). *p < 0.05, **p < in peripheral blood
