Zhang et al. Journal of Translational Medicine (2023) 21:145 Journal of
KEYWORDS: gut, adj, matrine, mice, cums, group, depression, microbiota, brain, metabolites, intestinal, fig, gut microbiota, analysis, bdnf


of the neurotrophin family, is one of the brain of BDNF in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus indicators of depression research. Depressive states, displayed a positive correlation with the abundance of including elevated levels of proinflammatory cytokines Lactobacillus and Allobaculum, and a negative correla- in the brain, have been reported to be accompanied by tion with the abundance of Helicobacter, Rikenella, and down-regulation of BDNF expression in the brain [37, Odoribacter. The levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines 38]. Therefore, BDNF levels in specific brain regions (IL-1β, IL-6, and TNF-α) in the prefrontal cortex and (prefrontal cortex and hippocampus) were examined. hippocampus showed negatively correlated with the As illustrated in Fig. 5B, E, CUMS-induced group sig- abundance of Lactobacillus and Allobaculum, and posi- nificantly reduced BDNF levels in prefrontal cortex tively correlated with the abundance of Helicobacter, and hippocampus in mice (p adj = 3.97e − 04 and p adj Rikenella, and Odoribacter. The level of BDNF in the = 5.79e − 04). Meanwhile, the imipramine (p adj = 0.03 prefrontal cortex and hippocampus was positively cor- and p adj = 7.82e − 04) and matrine (p adj = 0.02 and related with the content of Cellobiose, Glu-Gly-Arg, (See figure on next page.) Fig. 5 The relative levels of BDNF protein expression in different groups. A Immunofluorescence images of BDNF (red) and DAPI (blue) in the prefrontal cortex. The merged image is displayed in the right panel. Bar 50 μm. B The relative levels of BDNF in prefrontal cortex in ELISA assay. = C The average fluorescence intensity of BDNF in prefrontal cortex in A. D Immunofluorescence image of BDNF (red) and DAPI (blue) in the CA1 region of hippocampal. Bar 200 μm. E The relative levels of BDNF in hippocampus in ELISA assay. F The average fluorescence intensity of BDNF in prefrontal cortex in FIGURE D = . Data are presented as the mean SEM (n 8). *p < 0.05, ***p < 0.001 versus the control group (Con); #p < 0.05, ##p < 0.01, ###p < 0.001 versus the CUMS group ± = adj adj adj adj adj Fig. 5 (See legend on previous page.) Fig. 6 Spearman correlation between the related indicators of gut and brain. Axis label: red, BDNF and pro-inflammatory cytokines in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus; blue, gut microbiota; black, gut metabolites. Numbers on the lower left area: value of correlation coefficient; symbols on the upper right
