Zhang et al. Journal of Translational Medicine (2023) 21:145 Journal of
KEYWORDS: gut, adj, matrine, mice, cums, group, depression, microbiota, brain, metabolites, intestinal, fig, gut microbiota, analysis, bdnf


and pro-inflammatory cytokines in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus; blue, gut microbiota; black, gut metabolites. Numbers on the lower left area: value of correlation coefficient; symbols on the upper right area: results of correlation and significance test, *p < 0.05, **p < 0.01, ***p < 0.001 N-(2-acetamido) iminodiacetic acid, Glu-Val-Arg, N6, between the related indicators of gut and brain, indicat- N6, N6-trimethyl-l-lysine, Trp(O)-Ile, 4-Pyridoxic ing that matrine improves CUMS-induced depression acid, Gln-Trp-Arg, PyroGlu-Trp-Lys, Met-Val-Lys, Ser- in mice via “gut–brain” communication. Asn-Lys, His-Met-Arg, and PyroGlu-Trp-Arg, while negatively correlated with the content of 4-Mor- Disscussion pholinopropanesulfonic acid Acamprosate, Acampros- tate, (N-(-2-Acetamido))-2-aminoethanesulfonic acid, Previous evidence has shown that matrine possesses anti- l-Citrulline, Pyridoxal, and Acetyl phosphate. What’s cancer, anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidant, antiviral, anti- more, the relationship between the levels of pro- microbial, and neuro-protective properties. However, inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, IL-6, and TNF-α) in large doses of alkaloids have significant hepatotoxic and the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus and the above- neurotoxic properties, which somewhat limit their clini- mentioned differential metabolites is just the opposite cal application. The dose of matrine selected in our study of the relationship between BDNF and the above-men- was within its safe dose range in vivo (10–160 mg/kg), tioned differential metabolites. Collectively, the corre- which adequately avoided its toxicity . In the cur- lation analysis results further provided the relationship rent study, to clarify the antidepressant effect of matrine, we established an animal model combining CUMS with separation to simulate human depression caused by [55–58]. In general, we observed that most of the sig- long-term low-intensity stress , and successfully nificantly increased microbiota in the CUMS group established a mouse depression model, as evidenced by have been confirmed to be positively related to inflam- four behavioral tests (SPT, FST, OFT, and NSFT) and the mation and neurological diseases, especially depression detection of monoamine neurotransmitters (5-HT, NE, and anxiety. However, matrine modulated and restored and DA) in serum. Here, the four behavioral tests were the composition of the gut microbiota associated with used to evaluate the anhedonia, behavioral despair, exer- inflammation in depressed mice, suggesting that matrine cise and exploration ability, and appetite in mice. mediates the regulation of intestinal microbes to improve Studies have shown that long-term stress can lead depression-like behaviors. to the imbalance of gut microbiota, whereas the clas- As a systematic research method, metabolomics sic antidepressant can alleviate the altered gut micro- directly reflects the changes in the
