Zhang et al. Journal of Translational Medicine (2023) 21:145 Journal of
KEYWORDS: gut, adj, matrine, mice, cums, group, depression, microbiota, brain, metabolites, intestinal, fig, gut microbiota, analysis, bdnf


behaviors. to the imbalance of gut microbiota, whereas the clas- As a systematic research method, metabolomics sic antidepressant can alleviate the altered gut micro- directly reflects the changes in the biochemical pro- biota . Depression-like behaviors in depression cess and state of the body, plays a role in the identifica- model mice exposed to stress are also related to changes tion and confirmation of pharmacological and disease in gut microbial composition . In our study, the models, and better captures the changes in endogenous structure of gut microbiota in the CUMS model group metabolites caused by drugs . Consistent with expec- indeed changed significantly, manifested in the signifi- tations, the CUMS procedure caused significant changes cant increase in the relative abundance of Odoribacter, in most metabolites (Fig. 3C, E). From this, we further Rikenella, Streptococcus, Anaerotruncus, Clostridium, predict the metabolic pathways that it may participate in and Helicobacter, however the trend was reversed after and affect. After analysis, we found that there are 4 meta- matrine treatment. It is known that the relative abun- bolic pathways that are closely related to the treatment dance of Odoribacter increases significantly after chronic of depression, namely ABC transporters, biosynthetic and unpredictable mild stimulation . Odoribacter in of amino acids, neuroactive ligand-receptor interac- the intestine is significantly negatively correlated with tion, and synaptic vesicle cycle. ABC transporters have brain BDNF and the levels of tight junction proteins been reported to be associated with depression. In fact, in the brain and intestine and is significantly some ABC transporters are distributed throughout the positively correlated with the levels of inflammatory brain and participate in the blood-brain barrier to regu- cytokines in the brain and intestine, as well as the pro- late the inflow or outflow of various metabolites . It inflammatory state of several metabolic and autoimmune is worth noting that in the shared metabolic pathways in diseases . Rikenella is significantly negatively Fig. 3D, F, the biosynthetic of amino acids has a higher correlated with intestinal tight junction proteins (such impact. In addition, there are also changes in aminoacyl- as occludin and e-cadherin) and positively correlated tRNA biosynthesis, arginine biosynthesis, alanine, and with inflammatory cytokines, which is related to the aspartate and glutamate metabolism, which once again intestinal mucosal barrier and the degree of inflamma- verify that the intestinal amino acid metabolism disorders tion [32–34]. Well, it was found that the relative abun- are closely
