Zhang et al. Journal of Translational Medicine (2023) 21:145 Journal of
KEYWORDS: gut, adj, matrine, mice, cums, group, depression, microbiota, brain, metabolites, intestinal, fig, gut microbiota, analysis, bdnf


once again intestinal mucosal barrier and the degree of inflamma- verify that the intestinal amino acid metabolism disorders tion [32–34]. Well, it was found that the relative abun- are closely related to the pathophysiology of depression dance of Streptococcus and Clostridium in the intestine . In addition, the up-regulation of neuroactive of major depressive disorder was significantly higher ligand-receptor interaction contributes to the recovery of than normal person . Streptococcus belongs to the depression induced by CUMS. Notably, from the results, inflammation-promoting bacteria, and the increase in its the up-regulation of the neuroactive ligand-receptor relative abundance induces intestinal inflammation . interaction pathway is beneficial to compensate for the Anaerotruncus is positively correlated with anxiety and low synaptic vesicle cycle, thereby promoting the release has been reported to increase in the feces of stressed ani- of neurotransmitters to improve CUMS-induced depres- mals, and increased in the feces of mice with intestinal sion . These reports coincide with our experimental barrier dysfunction . What’s more, it is reported results and also provide a theoretical basis for revealing that Helicobacter infection may cause glial to produce the antidepressant mechanism of matrine. Therefore, we inflammatory products and affect the production of neu- speculate that the CUMS procedure caused the dysfunc- rotrophic factors . At the genus level, the abundance tion of amino acid metabolism in mice. While Matrine of Helicobacter in mice transplanted with fecal micro- treatment alleviates the metabolic disorders and related biota of depression-like mice was more significant than symptoms caused by CUMS procedure via multiple met- that in other groups . Additionally, Lactobacillus is a abolic pathways, thereby improving depression. differential microbiota in the control group (Fig. 2F). As Anyway, our study confirmed that significant changes we all know, genus Lactobacillus is one kind of probiotics in a variety of amino acids and their metabolites are in the intestinal, which is beneficial to alleviate intestinal related to the intestinal barrier and inflammation. In inflammation and improve various neurological diseases view of the above results, we believe that it is necessary to further investigate the effect of matrine on indicators function and intercellular communication through mul- that reflect intestinal inflammation and permeability. tiple signaling pathways [72–76]. In the future, we will Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) is a component of Gram-neg- study in depth the direct targets and related molecular ative bacteria that can induce the production of IL-1β by mechanisms of the antidepressant effects
