Zhang et al. Journal of Translational Medicine (2023) 21:145 Journal of
KEYWORDS: gut, adj, matrine, mice, cums, group, depression, microbiota, brain, metabolites, intestinal, fig, gut microbiota, analysis, bdnf


(LPS) is a component of Gram-neg- study in depth the direct targets and related molecular ative bacteria that can induce the production of IL-1β by mechanisms of the antidepressant effects of matrine and binding to CD14 Toll-like receptor-4 (TLR4), and then further explore the possibility that oxidative stress and IL-1β stimulates the production of other pro-inflamma- intercellular communication are involved in “gut–brain” tory cytokines (such as TNF-α and IL-6), which in turn communication to exert antidepressant effects. promotes the occurrence of intestinal inflammation and Conclusion destroys the intestinal barrier, resulting in increased intestinal permeability . The decrease in intesti- In conclusion, our research confirmed that matrine can nal barrier function is accompanied by an increase in regulate the composition of the gut microbiota and the DAO, a marker of intestinal permeability . Thus, the disturbance of gut metabolites, restore intestinal per- relative levels of DAO, LPS were tested. Additionally, meability, reduce peripheral blood circulation and neu- pro-inflammatory cytokines can pass through the blood- roinflammation, and increase the expression of BDNF brain barrier by second messengers or endothelial cells protein, thereby effectively alleviating depression-like to carry out bidirectional communication between the behaviors in CUMS-induced mice. This study provides a central nervous system and the periphery . There- basis for exploring the mechanism of matrine to improve fore, we next tested the relative levels of pro-inflamma- depression through the “microbiota–gut–brain” axis, and tory cytokines in prefrontal cortex and hippocampus, as provides a new direction for matrine in the treatment of well as in the serum of mice. It was found that matrine depression. Our future work will carry out fecal micro- can restore intestinal permeability and intestinal bar- biota transplantation experiments to verify the causal rier function, regulates the release of pro-inflammatory relationship of matrine improving depression through cytokines in the intestine and peripheral blood circula- “gut–brain” regulation. tion, and relieves the inflammatory damage of the spe- cific brain regions. This result is inseparable from the Abbreviations anti-inflammatory effect of matrine and its regulation of CUMS Chronic unpredictable mild stress gut microbiota such as Lactobacillus. ELSA Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay BDNF Brain-derived neurotrophic factor Notably, in depression model mice, elevated levels of 5-HT Serotonin pro-inflammatory factors in the brain lead to impaired NE Norepinephrine release of neurotrophic factors . Moreover, neu- DA Dopamine DAO Diamine oxidase roinflammation promotes the down-regulation of BDNF LPS Lipopolysaccharide expression in depressed patients and depression model IL-1β Interleukin-1β
