Brugada Syndrome
KEYWORDS: brugada, syndrome, brugada syndrome, ecg, patients, type, ventricular, pattern, diagnosis, syncope, ecg pattern, type brugada, right, testing, family


Brugada syndrome is an inherited channelopathy, characterized by large J- waves and coved ST elevation with associated T-wave inversion in leads V1-V3, that causes an increased risk of ventricular tachycardia (VT) and ventricular fibrillation (VF), leading to syncope and sudden death. Diagnosis is by ECG and often provocative electrodiagnostic testing and/or genetic testing. Treatment is with an implanted cardioverter-defibrillator. Family members should be screened. Overall the incidence of Brugada syndrome is approximately 5 in 10,000 (1) but shows wide variation with ethnicity and, consequently geographical region, being highest is Southeast Asia (37 in 10,000), the Middle East (18/10,000), and the rest of Asia (17 in 10,000) and much lower in Europe (1/10,000) and North America (0.5/10,000) (1). The majority of patients with clinically apparent Brugada syndrome are male (85%) (1). Pathophysiology of Brugada Syndrome Brugada syndrome results from mutations that Decrease inward sodium or calcium currents OR Increase early outward potassium currents These abnormalities lead to early loss of the action potential plateau, particularly in the epicardial cells of the right ventricular outflow tract that produce characteristic right precordial ECG changes and a 1/6 propensity to ventricular tachyarrhythmias. Although different mutations have been reported, most are in the SCN5A gene, producing a loss-of-function of the inward sodium current (1). Typically, patients have no structural heart disease. Nevertheless, relationships with other genetic and acquired structural heart diseases are increasingly being recognized, as are overlap syndromes with long QT syndrome type 3, with the early repolarization syndrome, and with arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy (ARVC). Symptoms and Signs of Brugada Syndrome In some patients, Brugada syndrome has no clinical expression. However, in many patients it leads to syncope or sudden cardiac death due to polymorphic ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation. Ventricular arrhythmias can cause sudden death during sleep. About 10% of patients develop atrial tachyarrhythmias, predominantly atrial fibrillation (1), and some even present with atrial fibrillation (2). Events occur more often at night and are not usually related to exercise. Events may also be brought on by fever and by certain medications, including sodium channel blockers, beta-blockers, certain antidepressants and antipsychotics, lithium, alcohol, and cocaine (3). Diagnosis of Brugada Syndrome Electrocardiography (ECG) Family history Provocative testing to induce characteristic ECG changes Genetic testing 2/6 Diagnosis should be considered in patients with unexplained cardiac arrest or syncope or a family history of such when the affected people do not have structural heart disease. Initial
