Brugada Syndrome
KEYWORDS: brugada, syndrome, brugada syndrome, ecg, patients, type, ventricular, pattern, diagnosis, syncope, ecg pattern, type brugada, right, testing, family


spontaneous or provoked type 1 Brugada syndrome ECG pattern and recent unexplained syncope, sustained VT, or cardiac arrest should typically have an implantable cardioverter- defibrillator (ICD) (1). When frequent ICD discharges need to be suppressed, quinidine, which blocks the transient outward potassium current that may be increased in Brugada syndrome, may be efficacious. IV isoproterenol has also been used if the cause of the frequently recurrent arrhythmias appears transient and reversible (2). 4/6 In patients refractory to such therapy, catheter ablation of the arrhythmogenic substrate may be considered (3). Best treatment of Brugada syndrome in patients diagnosed based on ECG changes and family history but who do not have syncope or arrhythmia is unclear, although they do have increased risk of sudden death. Scoring systems have been developed to aid in determining if an ICD is appropriate therapy in such patients (4). Prevention of Brugada Syndrome Arrhythmias It is important to avoid factors that can trigger arrhythmias. Patients should monitor their temperature during infectious illness and take antipyretic therapy for fever. When possible, clinicians should stop any predisposing medications and prescribe alternatives. Patients should avoid substances, particularly cocaine and excessive alcohol, that are arrhythmogenic in Brugada syndrome Key Points Brugada syndrome is a genetic disorder causing characteristic ECG changes and an increased risk of ventricular arrhythmias causing syncope and sometimes sudden cardiac death at a relatively young age. Risk factors for symptomatic arrhythmias include fever and numerous medications and other substances (eg, alcohol, cocaine). Diagnosis is by ECG, sometimes with provocative testing. An implantable cardioverter-defibrillator may be required.
