A woman in her 60s with acute chest pain and shortness of breath
KEYWORDS: wpw, cath, omi, ecg, waves, lad, rbbb, acute, hyperacute, st-t, occlusion, woman, lad omi, iii, negative


A woman in her 60s had acute chest pain and shortness of breath. EMS arrived and recorded this ECG (no baseline ECG available). Sinus rhythm, RBBB, and anterolateral OMI pattern with concordant STE in V2, inappropriate STD (precordial swirl pattern) in V5 and V6, hyperacute T waves in I and aVL, with reciprocal STD and negative hyperacute T waves in III and aVF. Proximal LAD OMI would be the most likely cause. This was expertly recognized, and she bypassed the ED and went straight to the cath lab, where a proximal total LAD occlusion was opened. She did well. How do we diagnose LAD OMI on the ECG in the presence of Right Bundle Branch Block? Acute coronary occlusion in a patient with prior known right bundle branch block: Another chink in the armor for the ST-elevation myocardial infarction criteria. Ann Emerg Med 2023;82(2):219–21. I reviewed the initial ECG knowing only that the patient was a woman in her 60s who contacted EMS for acute chest pain and shortness of breath. Interpretation of ECG #1: As per Dr. Meyers, in this woman with new chest pain, the ECG suggests acute LAD OMI until proven otherwise: * Rate ~100/min. * RBBB. * Hyperacute ST-T waves in I and aVL. * Biphasic ST-T wave in V2 (with abnormal STE given RBBB). * Marked reciprocal STD in II, III, aVF, V5, V6. But — Is there WPW? Magnified V1–V3 suggested: short PR, slurred initial QRS upstroke (delta-like). Key Point: Regardless of whether or not WPW is present, the magnitude of hyperacute ST-T wave abnormalities in multiple leads requires prompt cath. WPW can mask or mimic MI, but severe ischemic changes can still be visible despite WPW. WPW is unlikely: * Discovery first at age 60+ is rare. * QRS morphology consistent with RBBB (initial R then terminal S in left leads). * P waves in II negative, in III negative, in aVL positive → non-sinus rhythm possible → PR may not be short. * Most leads lack delta waves. * Apparent delta in V1/V3 may be baseline artifact. Bottom line: Failure to consider WPW can cause misdiagnosis, but in this case the ST-T abnormalities are clearly ischemic regardless of WPW. The correct action is immediate cath. There is time later to determine WPW status by reviewing prior ECGs and history — but the decision to perform cath is time-sensitive. Providers recognized the OMI
