Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


ABSTRACT Puberty is the period of growth that bridges childhood to adulthood and results in physical and sexual maturity as well as the capacity for reproduction. Over half of pubertal timing is considered heritable. Significant pathology can result in both advanced and delayed puberty and can result in altered attainment of adult height, secondary sexual characteristics and reproductive capacity. The age for evaluation of precocious puberty has changed in the recent past due to greater understanding of the timing of pubertal development and important racial differences. The early detection of significant intracranial pathology underscores the importance of the workup in young girls with true precocious puberty, and the close follow up of girls in whom a brain MRI is not initially indicated. GNRH agonists have become a mainstay of therapy in girls with precocious puberty. The optimal method of delivery and age of cessation is not known, but increases in adult height and no obvious reproductive sequelae have been demonstrated. Unlike precocious puberty, the definition of delayed puberty has not changed in recent years, and large studies suggest that the most common diagnosis after evaluation is constitutional delay, however, this is more common in boys presenting with delayed puberty than girls. The most common diagnosis in girls with delayed puberty is gonadal failure. Advances in reproductive technologies have allowed women with Turner’s syndrome and MRKH to build their families. Among phenotypic women with all or part of a Y chromosome, gonadal extirpation is recommended, the timing of which varies with their genetic analysis which is the greatest predictor of risk for germ cell tumors. Molecular research and newer techniques of genetic analysis such as genome wide association studies and next generation sequencing have allowed the identification of genetic mutations that may be responsible for some of the complex diseases that cause both delayed and precocious puberty. For complete coverage of this and related areas in Endocrinology, visit the free online web-textbook, www.endotext.org. Introduction The pubertal process is the period of transitional growth bridging the childhood years and adulthood. The genetic blueprint housed within the genome of the individual has long before set in motion a number of critical processes. The end result is the maturation of a multitude of endocrine axes necessary for (1) secondary sexual development and, (2) the attainment of the immediate capacity for reproduction . Intrinsic to this reproductive maturation is yet another important process of puberty:
