Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


axes necessary for (1) secondary sexual development and, (2) the attainment of the immediate capacity for reproduction . Intrinsic to this reproductive maturation is yet another important process of puberty: (3) a secondary wave of skeletal growth and the attainment of adult stature . Abnormal puberty, whether premature or delayed, may adversely influence each of these events resulting in an untimely or altered ability for spontaneous secondary sexual development and spontaneous reproduction or abnormal growth. In recent years numerous advances have been made in molecular medicine and the assisted reproductive technologies. The impact of these advances has had a tremendous effect on the care of patients with abnormal puberty by: changing the initial counseling provided to our patients; allowing for new treatments during the time of altered pubertal growth; and, providing reproductive options to individuals previously known to be infertile and some considered sterile. In addition, new insight about the physiology of puberty and the genetics of these disorders has accumulated. The focus of this chapter will be on our expanded knowledge of both the genotypes and phenotypes of the disorders presenting as abnormal puberty. NORMAL PUBERTY FOR GIRLS (IT’S OCCURRING EARLIER!): A basis for the Definition of Abnormal Puberty Onset of Normal Pubertal Landmarks The first somatic change associated with the initiation of puberty in girls is an increase in growth velocity . It is during the initial increment in growth velocity that the first sexual sign of puberty occurs. The initial standards of puberty were published in approximately 1970 by Marshall and Tanner. These standards reported that in British girls thelarche (breast budding) developed at an average age of 11 years, followed by adrenarche , the appearance of pubic hair. After thelarche and adrenarche, growth velocity continues to increase and peak, a landmark termed the adolescent growth spurt. A peak height velocity of 9 cm/year is attained at that time. Subsequently, with near closure of the epiphyses there is a deceleration phase for growth. It is in this deceleration phase of growth that menarche occurs. It is often at least 5 years after menarche until most of menstrual cycles are ovulatory; clinicians cannot consider that puberty is normal until this reproductive mechanism is established as it represents the final step in maturation of the HPO axis. The sequence and timing of pubertal development may vary by ethnicity. The classic description of the normal sequence of pubertal signs as
