Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


final step in maturation of the HPO axis. The sequence and timing of pubertal development may vary by ethnicity. The classic description of the normal sequence of pubertal signs as published by Marshall and Tanner was taken from studies of British Caucasian girls not long after WW II.(1,2) They noted that breast development was the first sign of puberty occurring on average at 11 years of age in the British girls. In contrast, a study of African girls in the 1970s noted that for the majority of them adrenarche preceded thelarche. Several larger studies conducted in the United States have given further insight regarding the timing of pubertal events and suggest that the age of puberty may be decreasing. (3,4) The Pediatric Research in Office Settings (PROS) data were taken from a cross-sectional study of 17,077 American girls of whom 9.5% were African-American and 90.4% were Caucasian. It should be noted that Hispanic girls were included in both African-American and Caucasian groups. Surprisingly, nearly 30% of the African-American girls had evidence of breast and/or pubic hair development at age 7 years and nearly 50% by age 8 years. For Caucasian girls, 15% had started puberty by age 8 years and nearly 40% by age 9 years. The mean ages for breast and pubic hair growth were 10.0 and 10.5 years for Caucasian girls, respectively, and 8.9 and 8.8 years for African-Americans, respectively. The average age of menarche for Caucasian girls remained unchanged at approximately 12.8 years with the African-American girls starting menstruation earlier and at a mean age of 12.16 years. (3) The PROS results may have been skewed slightly given the fact that inspection rather than palpation was utilized to determine thelarche. The NHANES studies did not collect onset of pubic hair or breast data in girls prior to the age of 12 years, centering their analyses on the timing of menarche and the attainment of completed puberty. (4) In most studies taken from the US, an earlier time of menarche was reported when compared to the older data with ranges from 2 to nearly 5 months earlier depending on the ethnic group studied. While it is reasonable to consider that the original British normatives published by Marshall and Tanner are likely different from the heterogeneous American population at the end of the 20 th century, tremendous debate about the shortcomings and interpretations of these American data has continued
