Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


Tanner are likely different from the heterogeneous American population at the end of the 20 th century, tremendous debate about the shortcomings and interpretations of these American data has continued over the last 10 years in a number of different forums. An expert panel overall agreed that the weight of the evidence supports a secular trend toward earlier breast development and menarche but not for other female pubertal markers. (5) Some evidence exists that malnutrition in certain socioeconomic groups of US children may currently be reversing this trend. (5) Determinants of Normal Pubertal Growth From conception to the fusion of epiphyses during the later stages of puberty, a number of maturational processes occur for formation and modeling of the skeleton. Intrinsic to somatic growth is the initial mesenchymal cell condensation and differentiation into cartilage that serves as a template for subsequent bone formation. Osteoblast differentiation occurs on the surface of this cartilaginous template and endochondral bone formation results when such differentiation occurs on calcified cartilage at the growth plate. Genetic, environmental (i.e., nutrition), and hormonal determinants exist which are critical for the attainment of adult stature. The long held tenets that adult height is polygenic have been supported by genome-wide association studies for height (6). It has been estimated that 50 or more loci are associated with final adult stature (6-8). If all of these genes are functional, these parental-inherited growth genes determine the final adult height attained by an individual. Minimal changes by any number of these genes may result in height variation within the predicted height distribution. One can estimate this height by a calculation of mid-parental height . For females this is determined by subtracting 13 cm from the father’s height, adding this to the mother’s height in cm and then dividing by 2. Under pathophysiologic situations, an individual may be taller or shorter than would be dictated by parental height determinants. Sometimes these differences are genetically determined and in other situations abnormal hormonal influences alter an otherwise intact genetic predisposition, and in other cases environmental factors play a role. Genetic Influences of Growth Some statural genes are present on both X and Y-chromosomes with Y individuals being taller than X individuals. From tallest to shortest one can generalize the following: XYY > (taller than) XY > (taller than) XXX > (taller than) XX > (taller than) X individuals. A few genes have been implicated in these
