Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


can generalize the following: XYY > (taller than) XY > (taller than) XXX > (taller than) XX > (taller than) X individuals. A few genes have been implicated in these differences. One set of genes, the SHOX genes, exist on the distal X chromosome. (9-12) Mutations have resulted in short stature and deletion of this locus is associated with short stature in Turner syndrome (45,X). (9) Hormonal Determinants of Growth (Some gene mediated) No doubt, a normal endocrine environment critically influences bone growth. For example it is essential that intact and normal growth hormone and thyroid hormone production, among others, be present. This is demonstrated by the fact that growth hormone and thyroid hormone deficiency separately result in short stature until corrected. (13) Growth hormone excess results in such conditions as a gigantism and acromegaly. In addition to these known growth-promoting hormones, sex steroids are essential for mediating the pubertal growth spurt and attainment of final adult stature. Premature sex hormone production in children with congenital adrenal hyperplasia causes premature epiphyseal growth and fusion: thus, tall as children and short as adults. Early onset precocious puberty similarly causes premature pubertal growth with the risk of short adult stature unless corrected. The lack of pubertal development (delayed puberty) allows for continued long bone growth since the epiphyseal centers remain open longer than normal. Usually, in these situations, growth is normal until the expected age onset of puberty and the growth spurt is not noticed; however, linear growth continues in the absence of epiphyseal closure. This results in eunuchoid body proportions: an arm span which exceeds the height by more than 6 cm and disproportionately long legs. While it had always been accepted that estrogen mediates pubertal bone growth in females, it was not until this era of molecular medicine that it was determined that estrogen and not testosterone mediates the same function for males. Inactivating mutations in either the estrogen receptor gene or the aromatase gene (preventing conversion from androgens to estrogens) in males have resulted in lack of normal bone growth at puberty and lack of epiphyseal closure with resultant tall stature (i.e., taller than predicted). (14-17) These findings establish that estrogen is essential for initiation of pubertal growth, closure of the growth plate, and augmentation accrual of bone during puberty. The presence of both alpha and beta estrogen receptors have been identified in the growth plate and studies are
