Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


of the growth plate, and augmentation accrual of bone during puberty. The presence of both alpha and beta estrogen receptors have been identified in the growth plate and studies are underway to understand the exact mechanism of estrogen action. (18) DEFINITION OF ABNORMAL PUBERTY The classic definitions of abnormal puberty, whether premature or delayed, are based on timing that is considered to be 2.5 standard deviations removed from the mean. Previously, the definition of precocious development for girls was the appearance of secondary sexual development before the age of 8 years , an age felt to represent 2.5 standard deviations earlier than the mean. Revised recommendations have been made based on the findings of the PROS Network. (19) These guidelines propose that precocious puberty be defined by the presence of breast or pubic hair development before age 6 years in African-American girls and age 7 years in Caucasian girls . However some experts disagree with the PROS recommendations. A few girls with puberty starting between 6 and 8 years of age for African Americans and between 7 and 8 for Caucasians were initially reported with endocrine or CNS pathologic etiologies of early puberty. As a result, concerns emerged that the PROS definitions may miss significant pathology and that strict enforcement of the new guidelines will lead to missed diagnoses. (20-22) Data suggest that between 2-9% of girls in this age group will have underlying pathology and 1% will have a tumor. (23,24) Missed diagnoses have included CNS tumors, neurofibromatosis, hypothyroidism, congenital adrenal hyperplasia, and hyperinsulinism. Thus, for such children beyond the recommended age of evaluation with presenting symptoms of precocious puberty, a complete history and physical exam are warranted to ensure that a serious underlying condition is not missed. Some experts recommend a bone age evaluation and careful longitudinal follow-up for girls younger than age 8 years that do not fall into the PROS guidelines for evaluation for precocious puberty. (22) Recommendations based on the findings of the PROS Network have not been made for revising the definition of delayed puberty in girls as they have for precocious. As such, the absence of thelarche by age 13 years for girls signifies an abnormality, and remains the definition of pubertal delay . The classic definition for delayed menarche, i.e., primary amenorrhea, has been the absence of menarche by age 15 or 16 years, which is approximately 2.5 to 3 standard deviations
