Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


. The classic definition for delayed menarche, i.e., primary amenorrhea, has been the absence of menarche by age 15 or 16 years, which is approximately 2.5 to 3 standard deviations from the mean , respectively. While some patients present strictly with the absence of the onset of pubertal development, others have abnormalities in the tempo and sequence of puberty that has seemingly begun on time. Menarche usually occurs within 3 years of thelarche, when most girls have tanner stage 4 breast development. The American Academy of Pediatrics and the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists have jointly published guidelines that recommend evaluation of delayed puberty if menarche does not occur within 3 years of thelarche. (25) These guidelines also recommend evaluation of girls with the following characteristics: No breast development by age 13 years (delayed puberty) Absence of menarche by age 14 years in the presence of hirsutism or history or exam suggestive of eating disorder or excessive exercise or an outflow abnormality Absence of menarche by age 15 years. Age definitions should be seen only as general guidelines. Rather than require a young woman meet the strict definitions of menarche by age 15 or 16 years to initiate an evaluation for delayed puberty, it has been suggested that all adolescents be followed annually throughout the pubertal process. (26) For example, if a young woman presents concerned because of no menses at age 14 years, some of the major etiologies of primary amenorrhea could be recognized at an office visit without adding any significant costs. Screening at an age prior to 15 years should, as discussed in the previous paragraph, include screening for eating disorders and consideration of an excessive androgen disorder such as polycystic ovary disease. Exclusion of outflow tract disorders such as vaginal agenesis or imperforate hymen / transverse vaginal septum would require gentle pelvic examination. The physical exam should also be directed to identify findings that are typical of some associated endocrinopathies or syndromes such as gonadal dysgenesis. It would be better to begin a partial evaluation (i.e., FSH level and use of growth velocity curve) during earlier adolescent years at the time that abnormalities are first suspected than it would to wait until these young women are significantly different from their peers. No doubt, adolescence is one of the most difficult time periods in growth and development. It is potentially very harmful for an individual’s psychosexual
