Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


are significantly different from their peers. No doubt, adolescence is one of the most difficult time periods in growth and development. It is potentially very harmful for an individual’s psychosexual development to allow significant delays in secondary sexual development or onset of menses to continue without evaluation, treatment and appropriate counseling. Young women are particularly likely to be worried about delayed breast development. PRECOCIOUS PUBERTY Overview The overall incidence of sexual precocity among American children has been estimated to be between 1:5,000 to 1:10,000. (27) The female to male ratio is approximately 10:1. Early activation of pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) secretion is the most common mechanism of precocious puberty; usually it is idiopathic but it can be from serious conditions such as hypothalamic tumors. While the classic definition of sexual precocity is the appearance of secondary sexual characteristics before the age of 8 years in girls, newer guidelines as discussed above suggest that puberty is not considered precocious unless it occurs prior to age 6 years for African-American girls or age 7 years for Caucasian girls. (19) However, many pediatric endocrinologists in the United States routinely evaluate all girls with precocious development prior to the cutoff at age 8 years (28). As discussed above, even when puberty occurs between ages 6-7 and 8 years, it is important to consider evaluation of all children. (20-22) The child may be suffering from a serious CNS disorder associated with precocious puberty. (21) Long term implications of early puberty include an increased risk of breast cancer, metabolic diseases (e.g., type 2 diabetes, obesity), endometrial cancer and cardiovascular disease. (29,30) In addition, psychosexual maturation remains concordant with chronological age, and unfortunately early physical sexual maturation at any age places these young girls at a high risk for sexual abuse. Clinicians should routinely screen children with early development for sexual abuse. Direct questioning in age appropriate language should be used and the history should include questions about behavioral markers including new onset bedwetting, nightmares, or other behavioral issues. It is thus important not only to make a reasoned judgment as to when to initiate an evaluation, but also to institute the appropriate therapy and support to prevent these potential long-term sequelae, even in selected girls who fall outside the new recommendations. It is also prudent to remember that early maturing girls, who may not “fit” the criteria of having premature puberty, may elect to engage sooner
