Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


fall outside the new recommendations. It is also prudent to remember that early maturing girls, who may not “fit” the criteria of having premature puberty, may elect to engage sooner in coitus and other risk taking behaviors such as drugs than later maturing girls.(31,32) Precocious puberty represents the appearance of the secondary sexual characteristics from increased sex steroid production. This increase may be secondary to aberrant gonadotropin stimulation or intrinsic disease of the ovary or adrenals. Many terms have been used to describe the types of precocious puberty, and some are less used in contemporary literature. True precocious puberty, also known as complete precocious puberty, refers to puberty that appears early and either progresses through each of the pubertal landmarks including menarche or, in the absence of treatment, would likely progress through each of these stages. In the majority of children presenting for precocious development this early evidence of puberty is not the result of true precocious puberty and will halt or even regress; treatment is unnecessary (33). Classically a GnRH challenge test that demonstrated a pubertal response of gonadotropins (i.e., LH response > FSH response) was the hallmark of this diagnosis. The usual ability to suppress pubertal development with GnRH agonists remains the hallmark of treatment. Incomplete precocious puberty refers to the appearance of one phase of the pubertal process: thelarche, adrenarche, or menarche. Isolated precocious thelarche, isolated precocious adrenarche, and isolated menarche are the three forms of incomplete precocious puberty. Sexual precocity has been further categorized according to whether the pubertal signs are concordant or discordant with the sex of the individual: isosexual precocity referring to early sexual development consistent with the sex of the individual (i.e., feminization of a female); heterosexual or contrasexual precocity indicating precocious pubertal development that is limited to those physical signs not characteristic for the sex of the individual when presenting as isolated findings (i.e., virilization of a female). GnRH dependent and GnRH independent precocious puberty (GIPP) refer to those causes of precocity that are or are not secondary to GnRH production. Central precocious puberty (CPP) refers to precocity of CNS origin. A summary of the causes of sexual precocity is presented in Table I below, followed by a numeric breakdown of the frequency of occurrence of these disorders in Table II . Table I Classification of Female Precocious Puberty I. Complete isosexual precocity (true precocious puberty: gonadotropin dependent) A. Idiopathic B. CNS
