Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


and sex steroid concentrations are in the normal postpubertal range. As mentioned previously, idiopathic precocious puberty seems to be the most common cause of CPP. Neurogenic CPP seems to be found more frequently in extremely young girls with the earliest onset of puberty. CNS lesions identified include neoplasms, trauma, hydrocephalus, post infectious encephalitis, congenital brain defects, and such genetic disorders as neurofibromatosis type 1 and tuberous sclerosis, and granulomas of tuberculous origin. The most commonly identified neurogenic neoplasms found in CPP include hamartomas, astrocytomas, and pituitary microadenomas. (24) Hamartomas are congenital hypothalamic malformations that histologically contain fiber bundles, glial cells, and GnRH- secreting neurons and often act as a mini-hypothalamus. Less frequently identified tumors include epipendymomas, gliomas, and pinealomas. While the craniopharyngioma has usually been associated with delayed puberty, it can rarely cause precocity as well. Known genetic causes of CPP are rare and are currently limited to the KISS1 and the MKRN3 genes. The former gene produces a peptide that many currently believe to be the primary stimulatory signal of puberty and the later gene seems to be related to an inhibitor of GnRH secretion that exists prior to puberty, Activating mutations have been found in the genes encoding kisspeptin 1 (KISS1) and its receptor (KISS1Rr1.(34-37) In addition, as in normal puberty, higher levels of kisspeptin 1 have been identified in children with CPP compared to controls.(38) Recent research on 15 families with central precocious puberty utilizing whole exome sequencing identified loss of function mutations in MKRN3 genes which encode the makorin RING-finger protein 3 in 5 of the 15 families. The gene is maternally imprinted and likely plays a vital role in developing cells, particularly in the central nervous system. Interestingly, a larger deletion of 15q11-q13 which contributes to Prader-Willi syndrome encompasses the MKRN3 gene. The protein, makorin RING finger protein 3, is involved with RNA binding and ubiquination and degradation. Further research in 215 unrelated children with sporadic CPP identified 8 children with mutations in MKRN3, all on the paternal allele. (39) While these mutations are rarely a cause of CPP, this research does suggest an inhibitory role of MKRN3 in GnRH secretion. (40) Other chromosomal abnormalities associated with CPP have also been described, such as 9p deletion, Williams-Beuren syndrome (1q11.23 microdeletion), and 1p36 deletion. Also, maternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 14 (Temple syndrome) and 7 (Silver-Russell syndrome) have been identified. The latter two genomic imprinting disorders,
