Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


deletion, Williams-Beuren syndrome (1q11.23 microdeletion), and 1p36 deletion. Also, maternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 14 (Temple syndrome) and 7 (Silver-Russell syndrome) have been identified. The latter two genomic imprinting disorders, taken into consideration with MKRN3 mutations and Prader Willi, suggest the importance of epigenetic alterations in the pathogenesis of precocious puberty. (41) Girls with severe primary hypothyroidism can develop true precocious puberty. These girls have elevated gonadotropins in addition to high TSH levels. The associated precocity may result from cross-activation of the FSH receptor by the high circulating TSH or from direct stimulation of the ovary by the gonadotropins. Large ovarian cysts are not uncommon in patients with primary hypothyroidism and precocious puberty. These girls will have the atypical finding for precocious puberty of delayed bone maturation. Occasionally, treatment and correction of long standing virilizing congenital adrenal hyperplasia will be followed by the development of true precocious puberty. It has been hypothesized that GnRH secretion and gonadotropin stimulation of the ovary may ensue in these patients after the removal of hypothalamic androgenic suppression. Contemporary Issues for Management of CPP The evaluation of true precocious puberty requires confirmation of true puberty, a careful physical examination with attention to growth charts, and evaluation for a central lesion. If a CNS lesion is present, the child will typically have a pubertal gonadotropin response to GnRH that is usually associated with idiopathic true precocious puberty and occasionally with a hamartoma. The mainstay of CNS evaluation is imaging of the CNS. In addition, bone age X-rays are helpful to identify the advanced physiologic age associated with true precocious puberty. Precocious development that continues to progress is almost always associated with a marked increase in growth velocity and sometimes this rapid growth occurs prior to the presentation of precocious development (42). The long standing gold standard in the diagnosis of central precocious puberty has been the GnRH stimulation test. Peak levels of LH greater than 3 - 5 mIU/ml 30 – 40 minutes following stimulation are highly suggestive of central precocious puberty. (43) After GnRH was no longer available, in the United States, a GnRH-agonist was substituted as the stimulus. Either test remains today the gold standard for diagnosis. The measurement of a single LH value 30 - 60 minutes after administration of a GnRH agonist (leuprolide acetate at 20 mcg/hg) was considered adequate for diagnosing CPP; an LH value greater than 9.2 mIU/ml at 30
