Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


30 - 60 minutes after administration of a GnRH agonist (leuprolide acetate at 20 mcg/hg) was considered adequate for diagnosing CPP; an LH value greater than 9.2 mIU/ml at 30 minutes was diagnostic in one study. (43,44). Today, however, with the use of ultrasensitive LH assays, it has become standard to use basal LH serum levels as the routine for diagnosis, saving the gold standard stimulation test for those patients with inconclusive unstimulated basal results. (39) Generally speaking, LH values are unmeasurable before pulsatile GnRH is secreted in the prepubertal period. Random LH levels greater than or equal to 0.3 mIU/ml were 100% specific in one study for distinguishing CPP. (45) An unstimulated LH value of 1.1 IU/L or greater has been considered sufficient to assume that endogenous GnRH is being secreted and diagnostic for CPP in another study. (46,47) One should remember that exclusion of central precocious puberty does not rule out gonadotropin independent puberty. Ovarian imaging and thyroid testing may also complement the evaluation. Estradiol levels are not really helpful in the diagnosis of precocious puberty with one exception. Levels vary tremendously and estradiol levels may be in age appropriate normal ranges in girls with central precocious puberty. If, however, levels are markedly elevated (above 100 pg/ml) then it is likely that the patient either has an ovarian cyst or an ovarian steroid producing tumor such as a granulosa cell tumor. While some CNS lesions will need treatment (often surgery), the majority of remaining causes of true precocious puberty (i.e., idiopathic) respond to GnRH analogues. It has also been demonstrated that precocity associated with hamartomas, which may intrinsically produce GnRH, may be effectively treated with GnRH agonists. (48) Analogues work by desensitizing the pituitary and decreasing the release of luteinizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone. (49) GnRH agonist therapy initially increases circulating gonadotropin and estradiol concentrations for short periods of time. Chronic therapy is associated with suppression of pulsatile gonadotropin secretion and a blockade to the LH response of endogenous GnRH. Suppression is best monitored with GnRH challenge tests although basal LH values may be substituted when there is no doubt about suppression. Some children who are initially suppressed will escape suppression and require increased dosages. Additionally, measurement of serum estradiol (if elevated on prior analysis), height, bone age, and assessment of secondary sexual characteristics may be helpful. Evaluation of ovarian morphology and uterine size by pelvic ultrasonography
