Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


of serum estradiol (if elevated on prior analysis), height, bone age, and assessment of secondary sexual characteristics may be helpful. Evaluation of ovarian morphology and uterine size by pelvic ultrasonography may, in some cases, provide additional evidence of such suppression. Cessation of menses, regression in physical pubertal signs (i.e., breast size and pubic hair), and a diminution of uterine and ovarian size usually occur within the first 6 months of therapy. (50) Optimal time for discontinuation of treatment has not been established, however, discontinuation at age 11 appears to result in optimal height outcomes.(51) Pubertal changes reappear within months after cessation of therapy with a mean time to menarche of 16 months.(52) Analogues can be given in Depot formulations (IM or SC injections q4-12 weeks), as an implant (q4week to 12 month) or as a nasal spray (1-3 times daily). Leuprolide intramuscular injection is the only available depot preparation in the United States, and no studies have documented greater adherence to the multi-monthly dose compared to monthly dose. Injection site reactions occur in 10-15% of patients.(53) Histrelin, the once yearly subcutaneous implant, can suppress gonadotropin secretion for up to 2 years. (54) A minor surgical procedure is necessary for implantation and some site reactions have been reported, even a risk of infection. A recently published open label phase 3 multicenter histrelin study documented the efficacy in sustained gonadotropin suppression with yearly histrelin implants for up to 6 years of use. 52.8% of participants experienced site reactions, all of which were mild to moderate in sequelae. Additional difficulties with implant breakage (22%) at removal were noted. Gonadotropin levels returned to puberty levels within 6 months of implant removal.(50) The literature does not include randomized controlled trials of long term outcomes for children with central precocious puberty treated by GnRH analogues. Predicted height has been shown to often improve after long-term GnRH agonist therapy; the absence of treatment has been associated with reductions of these height predictions (51,55). In one large study mean gains ranged from 3-10 cm in girls treated up to age 11 years after treatment with GnRH therapy (56). In comparison, one small study of children followed for 12 years with slowly progressive precocious puberty did not demonstrate a loss of adult height without treatment. However, these studies often have flaws such as the calculations of gained height based on unreliable predicted heights. A consensus document of 30 experts
