Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


loss of adult height without treatment. However, these studies often have flaws such as the calculations of gained height based on unreliable predicted heights. A consensus document of 30 experts from Europe, the US, and Canada concluded that: “The efficacy of GnRH analogs in increasing adult height is undisputed in early-onset (i.e., girls under age 6 years) precocious puberty” (57). Those children who do not benefit may have the following characteristics: slowly progressive puberty, the precocity of which does not adversely affect the child; a normal predicted height prognosis; and a lack of evidence for gonadal activation (58). While consideration should be given to withholding treatment for these children, studies consistently demonstrate that girls presenting under age 6 years are able to subsequently achieve normal adult height because of the GnRH agonist therapy (59,60). Two of the most difficult decisions in the treatment of central precocious puberty are whether to initiate treatment in girls between ages 6-8 years and to decide what age to stop treatment (61). Since GnRH agonists decrease the aberrantly increased GH secretion seen in precocious puberty, some have suggested that these analogues may significantly suppress growth velocity enough to compromise the predicted improvement in height which could explain the ambiguity in studies regarding analogue impact on adult height. Some studies have evaluated the benefit of GnRH agonists with growth hormone (GH) and a recent meta-analysis suggested greater final height and predicted adult height with combination therapy, but no difference in final height standard deviation scores. (62) A prospective cohort study evaluated GnRH agonist alone (n= 17) vs GnRH agonist and GH (n=23) and followed subjects until final adult height was achieved. Final adult height was significantly greater than target adult height in the combination treatment group (4.86 +/-0.9cm vs 1.51 +/- 1.0cm, p<0.05) suggesting benefit to the addition of growth hormone to GnRH analogues in CPP. (63) The psychological effects of central precocious puberty have not been adequately studied (57). Therefore, decisions regarding whether and when to initiate treatment or stop treatment based on psychosexual concerns rely on clinical expertise and expert opinion. Incomplete, Isosexual, or Gonadotropic Independent Precocious Puberty (GIPP) GIPP can originate from the gonads, the adrenals, from extragonadal or intragonadal sources of human chorionic gonadotropin, or from exogenous sources. In girls, functionally autonomous ovarian cysts are the most common cause of GIPP. An ovarian follicle up to 8 mm in diameter are common
