Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


chorionic gonadotropin, or from exogenous sources. In girls, functionally autonomous ovarian cysts are the most common cause of GIPP. An ovarian follicle up to 8 mm in diameter are common in normal prepubertal girls and may appear or regress spontaneously, but rarely secretes significant amounts of estrogen (64,65). An intriguing finding of the somatic cell mutation associated with McCune-Albright syndrome in the cells of one such cyst sheds light on this occurrence (66). GnRH agonists are not effective in treating autonomous cysts. Juvenile granulosa cell tumors or theca cell tumors of the ovary are a rare cause of GIPP. Tumor markers for granulosa cell tumors include Inhibin B and müllerian inhibiting substance. Other ovarian neoplasms even more rarely seen in this age group that may also secrete either estrogens and/or androgens include gonadoblastomas, lipoid tumors, cystadenomas, and ovarian carcinomas (67). Peutz-Jeghers syndrome has been associated with GIPP; the mucocutaneous pigmentation and gastrointestinal polyposis seen in this disorder has been rarely associated with gonadal sex-cord tumors (68). McCune-Albright syndrome (MAS) classically includes the triad of hyperpigmented café-au-lait spots, progressive polyostc fibrous dysplasia of the bones and GnRH-independent sexual precocity (69). Some girls will present with vaginal bleeding preceding thelarche. Bone lesions and café-au-lait spots may increase over time. The actual clinical phenotypes vary markedly. This disorder is caused by postzygotic somatic cell mutations of the gene encoding the alpha-subunit of the stimulatory guanine nucleotide binding protein Gs. These activating mutations stimulate constitutive G protein activation in affected cells with aberrant cyclic AMP production (70). The mutations may occur at various times in fetal development with a patchy tissue distribution of affected cells. Each of the associated findings is affected by these mutations: granulosa cells in the ovary, melanocytes of the skin (71), and the dysplastic bone cells (72,73). In addition to the classic triad, other endocrine cells may also be similarly affected and associated with their autonomous hyperfunction: pituitary adenomas, usually growth hormone secreting, hyperthyroid goiters (74), and rarely adrenal hyperplasia (75). Another recent finding is the presence of these same somatic cell mutations in cells from isolated hyperfunctioning ovarian cysts of GIPP patients who do not exhibit other findings of McCune-Albright Syndrome (66). This may account for the findings of “ovarian hyperfunction” in patients with GIPP as reported in the series of Table II above (24). The sexual precocity of McCune-Albright syndrome is due to autonomously functioning follicular cysts. These
