Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


“ovarian hyperfunction” in patients with GIPP as reported in the series of Table II above (24). The sexual precocity of McCune-Albright syndrome is due to autonomously functioning follicular cysts. These patients can progress from GnRH independent to GnRH dependent puberty; when their bone age reaches the physiologic age of the normal time-onset for puberty, awakening of the arcuate nucleus for pulsatile GnRH secretion may occur and progress to the establishment of ovulatory cycles. Approaches to treatment have included aromatase inhibitors such as Testolactone and selective estrogen-receptor modulators. Studies evaluating the efficacy have been uncontrolled. One study with Testolactone showed only early effectiveness, with loss of efficacy over time (76). Another study showed success with Tamoxifen in reducing vaginal bleeding (77). However the effect of Tamoxifen on height has not been adequately evaluated. One international multicenter trial evaluated the efficacy of monthly fulvesterant in 30 girls with MAS and followed them for a year. Days of vaginal bleeding, and bone advancement were less in the treatment patients. However, there were no changes in predicted adult height or frequency of ovarian cysts.(78) An open label study evaluating the effectiveness of letrazole on 9 girls with MAS for 12-36 months demonstrated reduction in rates of growth, vaginal bleeding and bone age. Ovarian volume, estradiol, and bone metabolism indices which showed initial improvement, began to rise after 24-36months of treatment. (79) When the shift from gonadotropin independent to gonadotropin dependent puberty takes place, GnRH analog therapy then becomes the first line therapy. Iatrogenic sexual precocity In prepubertal children, exogenous intake of estrogen has been shown to cause precocious pubertal development. Estrogen containing products may include variety of health or nutritional supplements and personal products such as hair products, lotions, and creams. Ingestion of estrogen containing meat has also been implicated although controversial. In actuality, these causes of precocious development appear to be extremely rare. Premature Thelarche Isolated precocious thelarche is a common entity and is associated with unilateral or bilateral breast enlargement without other signs of sexual maturation. It generally occurs at early ages up to 4 years, with approximately 80% presenting prior to age 2 years. The thelarche regresses spontaneously after diagnosis in over half of girls (80). In all girls gonadotropin levels rise in the newborns after delivery and remain elevated for up to 4 years of age. While most newborns rarely exhibit a dramatic ovarian response to these elevated levels, it
