Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


rise in the newborns after delivery and remain elevated for up to 4 years of age. While most newborns rarely exhibit a dramatic ovarian response to these elevated levels, it is likely that isolated precocious thelarche is a result of this physiologic process. The uterus remains prepubertal in size during this time, however, the ovaries may develop temporary follicular activity, and estradiol levels will be slightly higher than is seen in control girls. This is usually a benign self-limiting disorder not associated with bone age progression. However, clinical consideration should be given that the breast development could be the first sign of precocious puberty. A careful history and physical assessing for neurological symptoms and signs and assessment for growth by growth charts and a bone age should usually be performed. Premature Menarche Premature menarche has been reported as periodic vaginal bleeding without other signs of secondary sexual development (81). While this entity has been repeatedly yet rarely reported, pediatric vaginal bleeding can occur as the first manifestation of sexual precocity in most causes of GIPP listed above. These etiologies should be excluded before one considers premature menarche as the diagnosis. The differential diagnosis of vaginal bleeding in a child without other signs of sexual maturation is quite different than precocious development and includes foreign objects in the vagina (common) and vaginal tumors (rare). Contrasexual precocity Virilizing precocious puberty in girls and isolated precocious adrenarche Most girls with contrasexual precocious puberty present with early appearance of pubic hair or hirsutism. The most common cause is a mild form of 21-hydroxylase deficiency, which is present in 0.1-1.0% of the population. Other more rare forms of congenital adrenal hyperplasia have also been identified in these patients. Virilizing adrenal (occasionally malignant) and ovarian tumors (e.g., Leydig or Sertoli cell tumors) in young girls can similarly present with virilizing precocious puberty. In actuality, most girls with appearance of pubic hair likely have isolated precocious adrenarche . While many of them have only early yet normal pubertal development (3), evidence exists that the prevalence of ovarian hyperandrogenism, hyperinsulinism and dyslipidemia is increased in this population (82). These findings suggest that premature pubarche in some girls may be a childhood marker for insulin resistance and polycystic ovary syndrome. DELAYED PUBERTY An Overview of Delays within the H-P-O Circuit (Delays of Secondary Sexual Development and Menarche) Several large descriptive studies have been published which have categorized the causes
