Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


study, included patients with delayed onset of puberty; it, however, did not include patients with menarchal delay. For the females reported (N=74), the 3 most common causes were: (1) constitutional delay of puberty (30%); (2) ovarian failure now called ovarian insufficiency (26%); and permanent hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (20%). Over 20 other numerically less frequently reported disorders were identified and listed below (see Table IV ). Table IV Etiologic breakdown of 74 females with delayed puberty (Children’s Hospital Series, 2002) Revised from Sedlmeyer, et al. (85). View in own window Group total No. % Hypogonadism (Pubertal Delay) Hypergonadotropic hypogonadism: Turner Syndrome 5 7 Chromosomally Normal 14 19 46,XX 13 17 46,XY 1 2 Total 19 14 26 Hypo (eu) gonadotropic hypogonadism: Reversible (Functional) Constitutional delay 22 10 Systemic illnes 1 Giardiasis 1 Rheumatoid Arthritis 1 Systemic lupus erythematosis 1 Sickle cell disease 1 Congenital heart disease 1 Isolated seizure disorder 1 Eating disorders Endocrine disorders 2 Growth hormone deficiency 1 Hyperprolactinemia 1 Irreversible (Permanent) 15 20 Congenital/ Genetic Syndromes Kallmann syndrome 1 Idiopathic Hypo Hypo 2 CHARGE syndrome 2 Forms of hypopituitarism Rathke's pouch 2 Hypophysitis 1 Hypopituitarism 1 Panhypopituitarism with hearing loss 1 Acquired anatomic lesions Craniopharyngioma 3 Germinoma 1 Ologodenrdroglioma 1 Total 51 67 Other 4 5 Numerical and physical clues to the disorders presenting with delays in pubertal development: organizing the approach to the patient. The numerical findings in these series point out several useful facts. First, most practitioners confronted with females presenting with pubertal delay can identify a few disorders that present in the majority of patients: ovarian insufficiency, constitutional delay, and permanent hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (as frequent causes of delayed onset of puberty) and vaginal agenesis (as the most frequent cause of menarchal delay). Rather than wait until the ages defining female pubertal or menarchal delay (ages 13 and 15 or 16 years, respectively), a physical examination with inspection of the introitus, plotting the patients on growth charts (longitudinal and velocity), and obtaining gonadotropins values will identify many of these disorders even before these age definitions are met. Idiopathic hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (IHH), however, is the exception being more difficult to diagnose in the younger patients. It is often a diagnosis of exclusion in the late teenage years. Secondly, constitutional delay occurs in less than one-third of patients in any series. While constitutional delay is a frequent cause of delayed puberty it occurs with higher frequency in males, and
