Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


constitutional delay occurs in less than one-third of patients in any series. While constitutional delay is a frequent cause of delayed puberty it occurs with higher frequency in males, and less frequently in females. Two thirds of all females presenting with delayed puberty historically have had underlying pathology. Lastly, pubertal delay can be an ascertainment for the identification of a rare disorder (See Table II ). Similarly, should any diagnosis be made during childhood years and in advance of the time for normal puberty, plans can be made prior to the pubertal years to begin treatment and to allow for the most normal pubertal progression as is possible. At least in the Children’s Hospital setting, this appears to be the case for Turner syndrome for which the frequency of presentation with delayed puberty was decreased from the earlier MCG series. The physical findings of the patients in these series also provide clues for helping us to form a differential diagnosis and organize our diagnostic approach. First, classification according to estrogen as in the MCG series allows for a separation of major etiologies. Table V Classification of Pubertal Abnormalities View in own window I. Hypoestrogenism/ Hypogonadism (Delayed Onset of Puberty) A. Ovarian failure (Hypergonadotropic) B. Hypothalamic-Pituitary Immaturity or Suppression (Hypogonadotropic) II. Normal estrogen milieu/ Eugonadism (Delayed Menarche) A. Congenital absence of uterus and vagina (CAUV) B. Chronic Anovulation (e.g., PCOD) C. Intersex Disorders (e.g., Androgen Insensitivity) The absence of breast development suggests a cause of hypogonadism: ovarian failure / ovarian insufficiency or a hypothalamic-pituitary problem. The practitioner can further narrow these possible etiologies by obtaining an FSH level; high levels suggest ovarian insufficiency and low normal values direct one to etiologies that have their effect at the level of the hypothalamus or pituitary. The presence of breast development usually directs one towards causes of menarchal delay suggesting the ongoing production of estrogen. One should remember, however, that some patients may have initiated puberty only then to have this process (and estrogen production) suppressed. Historically, biological evidence for estrogen or its lack has been more helpful than a single estradiol assay. A vaginal smear which demonstrates greater than 15% superficial cells, a positive progestin challenge test, the presence of endometrium on ultrasound measuring 1.5 mm or greater, or the presence of copious cervical mucus will usually confirm the suspicion of ongoing estrogen production.(86) There are currently no available studies for which evidence
