Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


measuring 1.5 mm or greater, or the presence of copious cervical mucus will usually confirm the suspicion of ongoing estrogen production.(86) There are currently no available studies for which evidence supports or refutes any one best method of determining the presence of sufficient ongoing estrogen production. Patients demonstrating breast development in the absence of evidence of ongoing estrogen production by any of these methods should be treated like any other hypogonadal patient. Second, absence of pubic hair after age 13 years is a very significant clue of several specific abnormalities. Pubic hair growth results from both adrenal and gonadal androgen production. One should remember that even when the H-P-O circuit appears delayed, the H-P-A (adrenal) circuit should still be functioning and providing adrenal androgens. For most disorders of delayed onset of puberty, at least some pubic hair should be present because this H-P-A circuit is unaffected by the defect (ovarian insufficiency and IHH). When pubic hair is absent after 13 years, it suggests a defect of: (1) pituitary function (i.e., the inability to stimulate both ovarian and adrenal androgen production as in pituitary insufficiency); (2) steroidogenesis (i.e., the inability to convert cholesterol to androgens as in 17-hydroxylase deficiency); or (3) androgen receptors (i.e., the inability to translate the hormone signal into end organ androgenization as in Androgen Insensitivity Syndrome (AIS)). The first two of these disorders occur in the 46,XX hypogonadal patients (Tables III and IV) and demonstrate defects within both H-P-O and H-P-A circuits, the common denominator being pituitary insufficiency or a steroid enzyme block. When examined they are found to have a normal müllerian system. 46,XY patients with 17-hydroxylase deficiency will present with absence of: (1) pubic hair; (2) breast development; and (3) a müllerian system. Androgen receptor defects are found in patients with normal breast development and absence of the vagina (i.e., AIS). Thus, for the patient with absent pubic hair after age 13 years, the most critical portions of the examination include the breasts and introitus. Third , the apparent absence of a müllerian system (i.e., vaginal agenesis) can occur for either 46,XX or 46,XY patients. However, an examination, not a karyotype, is the most cost effective initial screen. Patients may present with absence of the vagina yet also demonstrate normal pubertal breast and pubic hair development. If a rectal examination is unrevealing for them, the likely diagnosis is congenital absence of the uterus and vagina
