Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


vagina yet also demonstrate normal pubertal breast and pubic hair development. If a rectal examination is unrevealing for them, the likely diagnosis is congenital absence of the uterus and vagina (CAUV) also known as müllerian aplasia or Mayer-Rokitansky-Kuster-Hauser (MRKH) syndrome. If, instead, a bulging midline mass is identified just above the “absent vagina,” the patient likely has either a transverse vaginal septum (TVS) or imperforate hymen. None of these findings warrant chromosomal studies as they clinically suggest the presence of a 46,XX karyotype. The patient found to have breast development and absence of both pubic hair and a müllerian system likely has AIS. These latter findings alone warrant a karyotype to confirm the 46,XY compliment and the need for gondadal extirpation. As stated above, the patient with absence of the müllerian system as well as thelarche and adrenarche likely has 46,XY 17-hydroxylase deficiency. Fourth , identification of stature significantly shorter than one would expect for an individual whose growth was interrupted only by the delayed onset of puberty often reveals a genetic cause for both short stature and delayed puberty (e.g., Turner syndrome). Alternatively these findings could be the result of an endocrine cause which stopped growth several years earlier than the usual time onset for puberty in addition to preventing or slowing the onset of secondary sexual development (i.e., growth hormone deficiency, thyroid deficiency, or pituitary insufficiency). DISORDERS IDENTIFIED IN PATIENTS WITH EITHER DELAYED PUBERTY OR MENARCHE The remainder of this chapter will address specific concerns of the most common causes of the pubertal abnormalities identified in the two series described above. It will primarily refer to the data of the MCG updated series of 326 patients presenting with either delayed pubertal onset or delayed menarche tabulated in Table III and classified according to Table V above (84). In addition to discussing the common findings associated with these etiologies it will point out recent findings from molecular medicine and summarize contemporary treatment strategies. Hypogonadism Hypergonadotropic Hypogonadism The single most common cause of delayed puberty in all prior delayed puberty series has been primary ovarian insufficiency (83,84) . Forty-three percent of all patients seen in the MCG series had hypergonadotropic hypogonadism. The fact that ovarian insufficiency presenting at puberty was numerically less frequent (i.e., 26%) in the recent Children’s Hospital series suggests that more children are being diagnosed with Turner syndrome and other forms of ovarian insufficiency before the adolescent
