Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


do 46,XX fetuses. It is commonly believed that the loss of critical X chromosome-linked ovarian determinant gene(s) (87-89) is the cause of accelerated loss of germ cells (90) due to a defect of follicular development as noted by Jirasek et al. Many of these individuals lose all of their follicles with associated germ cells before birth. Some of them lose the remaining germ cells during childhood years and before puberty. Less than 15% of patients with Turner syndrome will lose their follicles (with germ cells) either during or after the pubertal process (83). Five percent of patients with Turner syndrome will have enough follicles (i.e., germ cells and surrounding granulosa cells) remaining at puberty to not only initiate the pubertal process but also to allow them to have regular, cyclic menses during at least a portion of their adolescent or adult years; 2-5% may spontaneously become pregnant.(91,92) Once the germ cells are prematurely depleted from the ovaries, the only remaining tissue present is the connective stroma of the gonads. It usually appears as a ribbon of white connective tissue located beneath the fallopian tubes and along the pelvic sidewalls (90). These residual gonads have the appearance of “streaks” and are referred to as streak gonads. The presence of a Y cell line in a patient with Turner syndrome brings with it a 15-25% risk of developing malignant germ cell tumors within those streak gonads. In those particular patients the streaks need to be surgically removed as soon as a diagnosis is made. For all patients with Turner syndrome, privation of X chromosomal material is associated with the variable Turner stigmata, cardiovascular and renal abnormalities, and the development of a number of specific medical problems. Turner stigmata include short stature, high arched palate, low hair line and webbed neck, multiple pigmented nevi, short fourth metacarpals, shield chest, increased carrying angle of the arms (cubitis valgus), and lymphadema of ankles, to name a few. These stigmata related to loss of X-chromosomal material are variably present in Turner patients. Furthermore, reports of phenotypic-karyotypic correlations have been inconsistent (83,93). Several observations and hypotheses have been made that help understand these relationships or lack thereof. First, it has often been felt that the presence of physical findings associated with Turner syndrome is dose dependent, i.e., the higher the percentage of 45,X cells the greater the likelihood of such abnormalities. While this makes the greatest sense
