Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


physical findings associated with Turner syndrome is dose dependent, i.e., the higher the percentage of 45,X cells the greater the likelihood of such abnormalities. While this makes the greatest sense intuitively, not all studies have been able to demonstrate a relationship between karyotype and phenotype (83). Recently, when ascertainment was considered, better correlations were made dependent on the degree of mosaicism. Patients found incidentally by prenatal karyotyping had fewer phenotypic features of Turner syndrome than those diagnosed after birth because of a clinical suspicion (94). Another explanation suggests that X chromosome gene imprinting exists and that some of the findings of Turner syndrome are related to the parental origin of the missing X chromosome in Turner patients (95). Short stature is the one consistent phenotypic finding of Turner syndrome (83). The MCG series was reported prior to the treatment of Turner patients with growth hormone. The fact that none of the patients in that series was taller than 63 inches (160 cm) in height supported the tenet that statural genes are located on both arms of the X chromosome. The knowledge of consistent short adult stature, often under 5 feet (152 cm), and the potential psychological effect it has in combination with other features of Turner syndrome, provided impetus for identifying therapies independent from estrogen treatment for these patients. Many hundreds of Turner patients have now been treated with growth hormone pushing the final adult stature beyond this 63-inch (160 cm) mark for some and certainly past the predicted final height for many other Turner women. The most serious somatic abnormalities found in patients with Turner syndrome are those involving the heart and great vessels. Cardiovascular disease is the primary cause of early mortality in women with TS with standard mortality ratios of 3.5 (CVD) to 24 (congenital anomalies).(96) Most of the mortality results from cardiac malformations, which have been reported in up to 50% of patients and include coarctation, pseudocoarctation, bicuspid aortic valves (separately between 30 and 45% incidence), and a host of other anatomic variants of the vascular tree, especially in the area of the ascending aorta. The high prevalence of these abnormalities has been reported in the years following the NIH consensus panel as has the recommendations for routine MRI screening (97-99). 1.4% of Turner patients have been estimated to develop dilation of the ascending aorta with subsequent dissection and rupture; most have died after being misdiagnosed
