Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


for routine MRI screening (97-99). 1.4% of Turner patients have been estimated to develop dilation of the ascending aorta with subsequent dissection and rupture; most have died after being misdiagnosed with another cause of the chest or epigastric pain (97-101). Most patients with dissection and rupture of the ascending aorta have had a cardiac congenital malformation, hypertension, or pre-existing dilation. At least 10%, however, have had neither an identifiable risk factor including aortic dilation nor an aorta diameter above the previously held risk size (i.e., > 5 cm) (101). Several explanations have been given for dissection and rupture in patients not felt to be at risk. First, this occurrence has been associated with the pathohistologic entity of cystic medical necrosis of the vessel wall, the culprit of similar clinical outcomes in patients with Marfan syndrome. This suggests that there is an inherent defect of the vessel wall that predisposes all Turner women, with or without risk factors, for this occurrence (100). Second, prior measurements have not taken into account the fact that women with Turner syndrome are smaller and thus should have smaller size aortas. When the aorta size was normalized to body surface area in a study of 166 adult Turner patients and compared to a control population (n=26), over 30% of the Turner women had an ascending aorta measurement that was larger than that of 95% of the control population (99,101). As a result, new guidelines have been suggested for those aorta measurements above which significant risk for rupture exists (99,101,102). Pregnancy may be the largest single risk factor for dissection and rupture of the aorta in Turner patients. There are nearly a dozen reports in the literature of death occurring during, immediately after or even more remotely removed from pregnancy in Turner patients who became pregnant from oocyte donation and embryo transfer. This gathering body of literature supports the fact that the cardiovascular (i.e., increased blood volume and stroke volume) and potential hormonal changes of pregnancy (perhaps remodeling of vessel wall by estrogen or progesterone) place these patients at a high risk of dissection, rupture of the ascending aorta, and death (101,103-105). A conservative estimate of a 2% maternal mortality rate has been reported from a US national survey and is 100 fold greater than the death rate for all causes during pregnancy (103). Similarly, a French study demonstrated a maternal mortality of 2.2%.(106) While death usually
