Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


national survey and is 100 fold greater than the death rate for all causes during pregnancy (103). Similarly, a French study demonstrated a maternal mortality of 2.2%.(106) While death usually occurs during pregnancy, some evidence suggests that changes of the aorta during pregnancy may increase the risk of rupture in future years as well. The report of a more recent Nordic cohort study of pregnant Turner women did not find maternal deaths but did report: 35% hypertensive disorders; 20% of patients with pre-eclampsia; and a 3.3% potentially life threatening problem, (107) Further prospective longitudinal data are needed to understand the absolute risk to these women during pregnancy. It would be ideal if IVF registries included this information. A number of other medical conditions may also be found in Turner patients. Horseshoe kidney is the most common renal abnormality observed and a number of autoimmune disorders, commonly Hashimoto thyroiditis, are diagnosed. Given the higher incidence of specific medical conditions for women with Turner syndrome than the general population, the NIH study group guidelines recommend continued monitoring of hearing and thyroid function, screening for hypertension, diabetes, and dyslipidemia as well as aortic enlargement (98). Normal Chromosomes The second largest group of young women with primary ovarian insufficiency has a 46,XX karyotype (46,XX gonadal dysgenesis). For them, some have a genetic etiology. An autosomal recessive form of this disorder was previously suggested by the presence of sibships reported in which several non-twin sisters are affected with ovarian insufficiency (83). The reports of mutations in candidate autosomal genes of affected patients provides support for the belief that autosomal etiologies exist for patients with 46,XX gonadal dysgenesis and premature ovarian insufficiency (POI). However, the more consistent finding that approximately 2% of sporadic and 14% of familial cases of 46,XX ovarian insufficiency have premutations for the fragile X syndrome makes this the current most likely explanation for the presence of 2 or more sisters with ovarian insufficiency (108). In addition, a number of other known genetic disorders have also been associated with POI including myotonia dystrophica, ataxia telangectesia, galactosemia, blepharophimosis-ptosis-epicanthus inversus syndrome, autoimmune polyendocrinopathy-candidiasis-ectodermal dystrophy syndrome, and proximal symphalangism. In addition, infiltrative diseases such as mucopolysaccharidoses and environmental etiologies such as childhood viral illnesses may also cause premature depletion of oocytes from the ovaries. This is suspected in identical twins reported to be discordant for ovarian insufficiency (83). While mumps can cause orchitis in males, it
