Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


cause premature depletion of oocytes from the ovaries. This is suspected in identical twins reported to be discordant for ovarian insufficiency (83). While mumps can cause orchitis in males, it is suspected that viruses such as mumps may cause oophoritis and loss of oocytes as well. Patients previously treated for childhood malignancies such as Wilms tumor, may develop germ cell depletion as a result of radiation therapy or chemotherapy (e.g., alkylating agents). Probably the most common cause of premature primary ovarian insufficiency in women with a 46,XX karyotype is autoimmune . For the group of patients for whom an abnormality is not identified, autoimmune is considered the most likely cause. These patients have an increased risk for developing other autoimmune endocrine abnormalities such as thyroiditis with thyroid dysfunction, hypoparathyroidism, and adrenal insufficiency. In addition, pernicious anemia has been reported in some of these patients. They should be screened on a routine basis for thyroid dysfunction and the other endocrinopathies, if symptomatic. Previous recommendations for patients with 46,XX POI included annual screening with a.m. cortisol levels followed by an ACTH stimulation test in those whose a.m. cortisol levels measured less than 17 – 20 mcg%. Subsequently, given the low prevalence of adrenal insufficiency in these patients, it was suggested that such screening be contemplated only when Addisonian symptoms presented. The NIH has a high referral ascertainment of POI patients with adrenal insufficiency. Studies of these patients have now shown that routine screening for the presence of adrenal steroid or 21- hydroxylase antibodies is effective to identify patients at-risk for adrenal insufficiency and, once identified, ACTH stimulation testing can follow (109). As one would suspect, in the absence of an identifiable genetic etiology for depletion of the oocytes, more of the 46,XX gonadal dysgenesis patients present at puberty with residual germ cells after the initial insult than do those with Turner syndrome. In the MCG series of patients, nearly 40% of them had enough follicles at puberty to mount a pubertal response before presenting with amenorrhea and ovarian insufficiency (83). A number of patients with 46,XX gonadal dysgenesis will actually go through the pubertal process and have cyclic menses before developing ovarian insufficiency and amenorrhea in their late teens or 20’s. Some of these patients who spontaneously go through puberty will also have reversal of ovarian insufficiency for indeterminate periods of time and rarely become pregnant during these times of spontaneous menstrual
