Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


of these patients who spontaneously go through puberty will also have reversal of ovarian insufficiency for indeterminate periods of time and rarely become pregnant during these times of spontaneous menstrual function. It is because of this natural history of POI that includes the reversal of the disease process in some patients that the term previously used for this condition by Fuller Albright, ovarian insufficiency, has been revived by some current authorities (109,110). It is difficult to understand accurately the numeric breakdown of the different etiologies of ovarian insufficiency in pubertal delay patients. Reports of large series of such patients exhaustively studied to determine cause do not currently exist. There is, however, information regarding the breakdown of different etiologies in a large French cohort (N=357) of ovarian insufficiency patients spanning the ages of 11 to 39 years from which inferences may be made for the younger population (111). In that series, 7.8% of patients with POI had an identifiable genetic cause including chromosomal abnormalities (not Turner syndrome) (2%), FMR1 pre-mutations (2%), molecular alterations of genes thought to be etiologic (i.e., FSHR, GDF9, BMP15) (2%), congenital disorders of glycosylation (0.2%), and autoimmune polyglandular syndrome (APS) type 2 and multiple autoimmune disease (0.8%). In addition, 10% of the patients presented with an autoimmune disorder not identified as genetic. Ovarian insufficiency in the remainder of women was considered idiopathic. Rare patients present with 46,XY gonadal dysgenesis . These are patients who likely have mutations in a gene controlling testicular morphogenesis such as the SRY gene, often referred to as the master switch for testicular development. While only approximately 15% have SRY mutations, there are now a number of genes both upstream and downstream in expression of SRY for which mutations may alter testicular development. As a result, the germ cells that arrive at the genital ridge will organize in the cortical, rather than medullary region of the undifferentiated gonad. For these classic patients with 46,XY gonadal dysgenesis, however, germ cell loss is complete before birth. Since they never develop testes, they will not produce müllerian inhibiting substance to ablate the developing müllerian system. They will also not produce androgens to allow for masculinization of the external genitalia. Historically these 46,XY individuals were labeled with Swyer syndrome; at birth they have a normal female phenotype with a normal vagina, uterus and fallopian tubes., i.e., complete 46,XY gonadal dysgenesis or sex reversal (112). At puberty, they
