Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


Swyer syndrome; at birth they have a normal female phenotype with a normal vagina, uterus and fallopian tubes., i.e., complete 46,XY gonadal dysgenesis or sex reversal (112). At puberty, they do not initiate pubertal development and are found to have elevated gonadotropin levels. They do not have other phenotypic abnormalities like the patients with Turner syndrome. They are often tall because of the presence of a Y chromosome. 46,XY individuals with gonadal dysgenesis have the highest risk for developing germ cell tumors of their streak gonads of any individuals with gonadal dysgenesis and a Y chromosome cell line. The streaks must be removed as soon after diagnosis as is reasonable. Less frequently, partial forms of this syndrome have been found to exist often in association with other systemic anatomic or medical conditions such as polyneuropathy, adrenal insufficiency, and even sudden infant death syndrome (113,114). Molecular Findings Turner syndrome. While Turner syndrome is considered to result from haploinsufficiency of critical loci or regions of the X chromosome and a number of putative genes have been identified, a molecular understanding of mechanisms involved is far from understood. A number of the stigmata and malformations of Turner syndrome have been thought to be caused by edema present during development because of an abnormal lymphatic vascular system and thus abnormal lymphatic drainage. As such, the abnormalities are actually deformations. For example, edema of the nail beds causes nail hypoplasia, edema of the neck causes cystic hygromas and webbed neck, and edema of the kidneys prevents them from migrating around the aortic bifurcation and results in horseshoe kidney. The presence of cystic hygromas during fetal life is also associated with coarctation of the aorta; lymphatic drainage back to the heart is sufficiently abnormal during development to cause this cardiac malformation and likely some of the other anatomic variations of the vascular tree that have been found in these patients. One region of the X chromosome, Xp11.2-p22.1, has been thought to include “Turner syndrome loci”, as a number of associated features including ovarian insufficiency, short stature, high-arched palate, and autoimmune disease have been mapped here (115). Deletions of the X-chromosome linked SHOX gene has explained many of the dysmorphic skeletal features of Turner syndrome including the short stature (11). While not consistently reported, it has generally been thought that the number of phenotypic findings of Turner syndrome are related to the percentage of cells that are
