Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


short stature (11). While not consistently reported, it has generally been thought that the number of phenotypic findings of Turner syndrome are related to the percentage of cells that are 45,X; the implication being that mosaic patients have fewer findings than do those with a single 45,X cell line. As stated above, a recent correlation between some of the findings associated with Turner syndrome suggested an imprinting effect with the variation in phenotype at least partially explained by the parent of origin of the remaining X chromosome. Renal abnormalities, for example, were exclusively found in patients retaining their maternal X chromosome (95). Prior karyotypic/phenotype correlations have suggested that the proximal regions of both the p and q arms of the X chromosomes are most critical for maintenance of the germ cell compliment (93). However, terminal deletions at the telomeric regions of these arms are also associated with oocyte depletion, although to a lesser degree. Deletion of these regions are more likely to result in POI after some period of ovarian function rather than a complete loss of germ cells evident at the start of the teenage years as is more commonly seen with the proximal deletions. Early molecular studies of patients with POI and translocations between the X- chromosome and autosomes identified 2 regions of the long arm of the X chromosome within the translocation breakpoints which were felt to harbor important ovarian determinant genes. POF1 (Xq26-q28) (116) contains several candidate genes (HS6ST2, TDPF3, GPC3) (116) and one known to be associated with POI, the Fragile site Mental Retardation 1 (FMR1) gene. POF2 (116,117) (Xq13.3-q22), the human homologue of the Drosophila melanogaster diaphanous gene, contains several candidate genes for which one, (DIAPH2), has been disrupted in POI (118,119). Other loci on the X chromosome have also been identified as important in maintenance of a normal oocyte compliment. Members of the Transforming Growth Factor-β (TGF-β) superfamily proteins are known to have key functions within the oocytes and granulosa cells. Of them, Bone Morphogenetic Protein 15 (BMP15 or GDF9) is produced by a gene (BMP15) mapped to Xp11.2 (120). Mutations within this gene have been associated with POI (121-123). While the list of X-chromosome candidate genes for ovarian determinants is ever growing, 2 genes known to be important in drosophila ovarian development or oogenesis are the DEAD-box 3 (DBX) and the Ubiquitin-Specific Protease 9 (USP9X) genes. Both of these genes, are located
