Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


2 genes known to be important in drosophila ovarian development or oogenesis are the DEAD-box 3 (DBX) and the Ubiquitin-Specific Protease 9 (USP9X) genes. Both of these genes, are located within the human Xp11.4, an area known to escape X inactivation. It would appear that a double dosage of all of these genes, especially DBX and USP9X, is required for normal ovarian function. Mutations, interruption, or loss of one of these genes results in premature loss of germ cells from the ovaries. It is possible that mutations within these loci are responsible for ovarian insufficiency in women with intact X chromosomes as they likely are in patients with Turner syndrome. All in all, there appear to be numerous gene loci on both arms of the X-chromosome responsible for ovarian development and function. It is no wonder that all of the Turner variant chromosomes, each with different portions of the X chromosome missing, result in POI. The most studied of the X-chromosome genes associated with POI is the FMR1 gene. When mutated by a CGG triple nucleotide repeat expansion the result is fragile X syndrome. As in many triple nucleotide repeat disorders, areas of normal repeat sequence may be predisposed to expansion during or before meiosis. Function of the gene is maintained within a given number of these triple repeats but when a certain threshold is reached gene function may be adversely altered. For the fragile X gene (FMR1), a CGG repeat sequence occurs with up to 60 such repeats being normal. Expansion to over 200 such repeats leads to fragile X syndrome; the high level of repeats causing hypermethylation of the promoter and silencing of the gene. Interesting observations were made that female carriers of the premutation of this locus with an unstable intermediary level of repeats (i.e., 60-199), often had POI. Best evidence suggests that this premutation is associated with a 21 fold greater chance of developing POI and that 2% of sporadic and 14% of familial ovarian insufficiency patients harbor this unstable intermediate trinucleotide repeat. Similarly, microdeletions of the FMR2 gene are associated with the same predisposition to POI (124). 46,XX Gonadal Dysgenesis . The list of genes involved in ovarian development and maintenance of the germ cell compliment has continued to expand as molecular analysis of patients with 46,XX gonadal dysgenesis and POI has revealed etiologic mutations. Some patients have mutations within one of the X-chromosome loci.
