Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


compliment has continued to expand as molecular analysis of patients with 46,XX gonadal dysgenesis and POI has revealed etiologic mutations. Some patients have mutations within one of the X-chromosome loci. For others, mutations have been found within autosomal genes, some that are associated with syndromic POI and others with nonsyndromic forms . Additionally, many, but not all POI or gonadal dysgenesis etiologies are associated specifically with the premature loss of germ cells. Examples of known genes for which mutations have been shown to cause syndromic forms of premature loss of germ cells include the Autoimmune Regulator (AIRE) gene causing autoimmune polyendocrinopathy-candidiasis-ectodermal dystrophy or APECED (125), the Forkhead-Transcription-Factor-Like 2 (FOXL2) gene causing blepharophimosis-ptosis-epicanthus inversus syndrome (126), and the Galactose-1-Phosphate Uridylytransferase (GALT) gene causing galactosemia (127) located on chromosomes 21, 3, and 9, respectively. Myotonic dystrophy is an autosomal triple repeat disorder, like the fragile X premutation carrier state, that is similarly associated with premature loss of germ cells from the ovary. Autosomal genes for which mutations have been associated with nonsyndromic premature loss of germ cells include Inhibin A (INHA) (another member of the TGF-β family), NR5A1 (SF1), and NOBOX (128-131). Of these, mutations in SF1 have been most commonly found, first in 46,XY gonadal dysgenesis patients, and more recently in patients with primary and secondary amenorrhea with 46,XX ovarian insufficiency (130). Other autosomal candidate genes are currently under study (e.g., DAZL). It would appear that all of these mutations cause loss of germ cells. Most previous studies have focused on single gene mutations and POI. However, it is likely that some etiologies of POI are multifactorial in nature with synergism between different genes and other epigenetic factors, particularly in complex diseases such as POI. After a recent GWAS study found associations between ADAMTS19 gene mutations and POI, further interest in the role of ADAMTS genes in ovarian development and function spurred additional genetic studies. (132) ADAMTS is expressed in the embryonic phase of gonadal development being important for angiogenesis and organ morphogenesis. SNP analysis found significant epistasis between SNPS in IGF2R and specific diplotypes for ADAMTS19 in women with POI. The authors hypothesized that since IGF2R is important in steroidogenesis and ADAMTS genes are regulated by progesterone, women with SNPs and diplotypes for these two genes are at higher risk of POI. Our molecular understanding of hypergonadotropic hypogonadal patients has revealed a number of patients with seemingly normal ovarian development
