Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


and diplotypes for these two genes are at higher risk of POI. Our molecular understanding of hypergonadotropic hypogonadal patients has revealed a number of patients with seemingly normal ovarian development for whom germ cell depletion is not the cause of the elevation of gonadotropins. Rather, in these patients, the inability for steroid production is usually the cause of the hypergonadotropic state; and, hence the classification of ovarian insufficiency. The first such classic syndrome, Savage syndrome, was originally described as gonadotropin resistance. Initially, a number of families were identified in Finland in which 46,XX individuals with gonadotropin resistance were found to be homozygous for a single mutation of the FSH receptor gene (133-135). Reports of additional mutations have since accumulated throughout other parts of the world (136,137). Subsequently, other 46,XX hypergonadotropic patients have been identified with mutations in the LH receptor (138-142), the FSH b (143,144), and the LH b genes. Overall the result of these disorders is a lack of estrogen production and variable hypergonadotropic states. 46,XY individuals with homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations of the LH receptor gene do not masculinize in-utero and present during adolescence with a female phenotype, delayed puberty, and hypergonadotropic hypogonadism. Their gonads, however, are testes not ovaries. The second classic hypergonadotropic state that has long been described in association with otherwise normal gonads is 17 a-hydroxylase deficiency. Both 46,XX and 46,XY individuals present with delayed puberty and a female phenotype, and ovaries and testes, respectively. Mutations have been also found in this gene (145,146). Similarly, mutations of the aromatase gene in 46,XX individuals have been identified and associated with delayed puberty and hypergonadotropism in these individuals (14,147-149). In contradistinction to the other hypoestrogenic syndromes, aromatase deficiency, however, is associated with elevations of androgens in-utero and at puberty and the predictable but variable degrees of masculinization in these otherwise phenotypic females. Finally, the fascinating report of a 46,XY patient identified with a mutation in the CBX2 gene suggests a new syndrome for which hypergonadotropism is associated with seemingly a normal ovarian architecture (150). When reported, this child was under 5 years of age. A more recent cohort series of 47 patients with disorders of sexual development did not find any pathogenic mutations in CBX2 mutations within their subjects. It is likely that mutations in CBX2 are a rare cause of gonadal disorders of sexual development.(151) 46,XY Gonadal Dysgenesis. Our understanding of Swyer syndrome (46,XY gonadal
