Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


within their subjects. It is likely that mutations in CBX2 are a rare cause of gonadal disorders of sexual development.(151) 46,XY Gonadal Dysgenesis. Our understanding of Swyer syndrome (46,XY gonadal dysgenesis/sex reversal) together with 46,XX sex reversal helped to identify the SRY gene on the Y chromosome short arm (152). Common thought has held that SRY expression is the essential signal in the process of testicular morphogenesis. Hence, SRY has been seen as the master switch for this process. However, only 15% of women with 46,XY gonadal dysgenesis have been found to harbor mutations in this gene (153,154). The fact that the remaining 46,XY gonadal dysgenesis patients have intact Y chromosomes and that most 46,XX true hermaphrodites studied have not been found to harbor SRY sequences provides evidence that other genes are present and necessary for testicular development either upstream or downstream in expression to SRY. Such conjecture has been replaced with an ever growing list of now known genes operative in this pathway of testicular morphogenesis. Mutations of the WT1 (155,156), SOX9 (155,157-160), DSS (161), SF-1 (114,162), DAX-1 (160), Desert Hedgehog (DHH) (113,163), TSPYL1 (164), and CBX2 (150) genes have all been associated with specific syndromes and 46,XY sex reversal. Of these, the most frequently reported and best characterized involves the SOX-9 gene and the accompanying syndrome of Campomelic dwarfism. Contemporary Issues for Management Patients identified with ovarian insufficiency will need evaluation for associated medical disorders. For Turner syndrome, the most commonly identified acquired medical condition is thyroiditis. For them, the most dangerous abnormalities involve cardiovascular malformations. While previously it has been well known that coarctation of the aorta occurs more frequently for these patients as does bicuspid aortic valves, it is now evident that these patients are also at increased risk of developing dilation of the ascending aorta (and less commonly at other vascular sites) with subsequent dissection and, if undiagnosed and untreated, rupture. Like patients with Marfan syndrome, they appear to have cystic medial necrosis as the predisposing vascular histopathology. Similar to Marfan syndrome, the increased cardiovascular demands of pregnancy also appear to increase significantly this risk. The NIH consensus panel has suggested that all Turner patients have a baseline echocardiogram and, if normal, then a cardiac MRI (98). Additional evidence suggests that the MRI measurements of the aorta should be normalized for body surface area (99). Subsequent studies should be repeated every 3-5 years and perhaps
