Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


MRI (98). Additional evidence suggests that the MRI measurements of the aorta should be normalized for body surface area (99). Subsequent studies should be repeated every 3-5 years and perhaps during each trimester of pregnancy if patients are willing to take a risk estimated to be at least 2% for maternal mortality and, for those who survive a potentially increased risk after exposure to pregnancy. All Turner patients should be counseled about their increased risk of dilation, dissection and rupture of the ascending aorta that is increased with pregnancy. Since most previous deaths occurred after misdiagnosis, Turner patients should be counseled to make health care providers aware of this possible diagnosis when being evaluated for disproportionate symptoms of indigestion and upper abdominal or chest pain. During dissection, the patient may have abnormal phonation and experience unusual coldness and sensations in their legs. It is possible that most deaths could have been avoided with timely diagnosis and surgical repair. Turner syndrome patients need evaluation for horseshoe kidney and for other less frequently diagnosed autoimmune disorders such as diabetes, hypertension, dyslipidemia, and hearing impairment (98). Treatment of patients with Turner syndrome includes not only hormone replacement for pubertal progression and health maintenance at least through age 50 years, but an even earlier consideration for growth hormone treatment. While there were some initial conflicting reports, general consensus is that the use of growth hormone for enhancing adult stature is a worthwhile endeavor (165-178). The initiation of estrogen therapy at an age concordant with normal endogenous ovarian production (i.e., at least by ages 9 to 11 years) has always been considered important for normal psychosexual development of the adolescent. However, it is also believed that such early estrogen replacement might also result in an earlier closure of epiphyses and a potential limitation of final adult stature. The use of growth hormone therapy initiated during the childhood years may allow a more normal childhood stature (concordant with mid parental height) and the earlier initiation of estrogen therapy obviating these concerns (168,179,180). Synergistic benefits of low dose estradiol and GH treatment for these patients when begun as early as 5 years of age can add 2.1 cm to adult height, beyond the 5cm gain expected from GH therapy when combined with estradiol at 12 years of age. However, inappropriate feminization at a young age and unknown long term consequences of early estradiol supplementation limit the widespread
