Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


GH therapy when combined with estradiol at 12 years of age. However, inappropriate feminization at a young age and unknown long term consequences of early estradiol supplementation limit the widespread use of adding estradiol to GH therapy in these young patients.(181) Other techniques to increase adult height include the delay of pubertal induction or the addition of oxandrolone until 15 years of age. Studies suggest that this technique can add up to 4cm of adult height but also raise concerns about effects of delayed puberty on bone health and the psychologic impact of delayed secondary sex characteristics.(174,182-184) Oxandrolone, an anabolic steroid, has significant side effects such as virilization and liver dysfunction, limiting its use.(185) Most women with TS build their families utilizing oocyte donation due to premature oocyte depletion and ovarian insufficiency; an increasing number of them with gestational carriers due to the risk of death from aortic dissection (2%) during pregnancy. (186) A Nordic cohort of 106 women with TS who had a live birth after donor oocyte IVF reported 20% risk of preeclampsia, and potential life threatening complications in 3.3%, however no deaths occurred. The one woman with an aortic dissection had normal pre-pregnancy imaging. 9% of this cohort had a known cardiac defect before pregnancy. (107) Due to the potential delayed depletion of oocytes in some TS women, there may exist a potential for fertility preservation in those women with regular menses. Case reports document the feasibility of oocyte cryopreservation in post pubertal girls (ages 13-15) with Turners syndrome who already had evidence of diminished ovarian reserve. A range of 4-13 oocytes have been cryopreserved. (187-189) Given all of these considerations for natural reproduction in these women with TS, counseling is critical to provide them the most accurate information regarding risks and benefits. Turner syndrome remains a relative contraindication to pregnancy, and if risk factors are present it becomes an absolute contraindication. Until better data are available or prophylactic treatment of the aorta is developed that provides protection for pregnancy, counseling should be provided that includes alternatives such as use of a gestational carrier or adoption. Patients with 46,XX gonadal dysgenesis should be evaluated for premutations of the fragile X (FMRI) gene. This finding should prompt counseling for themselves and other family members and prohibit use of their similarly affected sisters as oocytes donors. In addition, 46,XX ovarian insufficiency patients should be screened regularly for the development
