Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


for themselves and other family members and prohibit use of their similarly affected sisters as oocytes donors. In addition, 46,XX ovarian insufficiency patients should be screened regularly for the development of Hashimoto thyroiditis and at least at baseline for adrenal steroid cell or 21-hydroxylase antibodies. Continued surveillance should be considered for the presence of hypoparathyroidism, adrenal insufficiency, and other autoimmune disorders such as pernicious anemia. All gonadal dysgenesis patients with a Y cell line need extirpation of their gonads including Turner patients with 45,X/46,XY (or those with a Y chromosome fragment) gonadal dysgenesis and the 46,XY gonadal dysgenesis patients. One should remember that rare Turner patients with seeming a single 45,X cell line might have undetected mosaicism for a Y cell line. Screening 45,X single cell line patients and those individuals with an unidentified chromosomal fragment with Y-DNA centromeric probes may be prudent to uncover those additional individuals at-risk for gonadal malignancies. All patients with premature gonadal failure need estrogen therapy for initiation and completion of pubertal progression and subsequently for the maintenance of a multitude of health processes. While the continued accrual and remodeling of bone is of utmost importance, it remains likely that numerous other physiologic processes are dependent on normal estrogen status as well, at least through 50 years of age. The findings and concerns for long term hormone replacement of the Women’s Health Initiative do not apply to these or any other patient prior to the age of 50 years and should not be used to prematurely stop their hormone replacement. Counseling is of utmost importance for these individuals and should cover expectations for all aspects of these young women’s lives including alternatives for reproduction. While the use of donor oocytes and IVF has proven safe for 46,XX and 46,XY gonadal dysgenesis patients, an estimated maternal death rate of at least 2% exists for Turner syndrome patients and pregnancy may increase the risk for rupture in future years. While it is often easier to include pregnancy by donor oocyte as an alternative during counseling, until more information is available such discussions should be framed with the above concerns. One should also turn to patient guidelines of national organizations such as the American Society for Reproductive Medicine (ASRM) and the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) as they are developed about these issues. The use of “buddy programs” in which these patients are paired with others
