Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


(ASRM) and the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) as they are developed about these issues. The use of “buddy programs” in which these patients are paired with others who have previously confronted the same issues during adolescence and support groups (e.g., Turner Syndrome Society) is an excellent complement to this counseling. Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism A number of young women will present with delay of the onset of pubertal development who have no evidence of ongoing estrogen production, because something has interrupted either GnRH or gonadotropin secretion from the hypothalamus/pituitary. Patients with constitutional delay of puberty represent the most common of these disorders. Other disorders are clearly congenital or acquired. Constitutional delay Constitutional delay of puberty refers to a common condition for which patients will go through puberty but at a time that is more than 2.5 standard deviations delayed from the mean (Tables III and IV) (83-85). A number of these patients often have a family history of delayed puberty (85). Their physiologic age (i.e., bone age) lags behind that of their peers and is manifested by a delay in the adolescent growth spurt and temporary short stature. Most of these patients present between 13 and 16 years of age and at that time have very early signs of thelarche. Their gonadotropin levels are in the low to normal range and their workup is otherwise unrevealing. Until recently, no specific mutations had been identified as causing constitutional delayed puberty, despite the observation that 50-80% of those with this disorder have a positive family history. A recent proband study evaluated families with delayed puberty for some of the common mutations found in idiopathic hypogonadotropic hypogonadism ( IHH). They found that subjects with constitutional delayed puberty more commonly shared the same mutation with affected family members compared to non-affected family members (53% vs 12%, p = 0.03). They even found that subjects with delayed puberty without a similar family history were more likely than controls to carry mutations commonly seen in IHH (14.3% vs 5.6%, p =0.01)(190). In males, 60% of pubertal delay is constitutional. In females, however, no more than 30% have this benign reproductive condition. While constitutional delay represents a leading cause of female pubertal delay, prior emphasis on this statistic has led to the false diagnosis for many young women and the misguided reassurance that they were simply “late bloomers.” As many as two-thirds of females presenting with
