Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


this statistic has led to the false diagnosis for many young women and the misguided reassurance that they were simply “late bloomers.” As many as two-thirds of females presenting with delayed puberty will have an irreversible etiology for reproductive failure, not constitutional delay (83). For this reason, any patient presenting with delayed puberty and given the label of constitutional delay should be scrutinized very carefully for other etiologies, especially if they are beyond age 16 years and have yet to initiate pubertal development. It can be challenging to differentiate constitutional delay from IHH. Given the finding of similar mutations observed in some of both groups of patients, these disorders may, in fact, fall in the same spectrum, one being reversible and the other not. Numerous tests have been proposed to help distinguish the two; however, none have been particularly helpful. When previously performed, an intravenous GnRH challenge test usually confirmed early awakening of the hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian circuit by demonstrating a pubertal gonadotropin response, i.e., a greater release of LH than FSH. Such a response is seen only after endogenous GnRH secretion occurs and puberty is at or beyond its very early stages. At the same time, this early gonadotropin release produces the multifollicular ovarian appearance of early puberty; the ultrasound appearance of which is likely as reassuring that puberty is marching onward as is the LH response of a GnRH challenge. The most helpful distinction between IHH and delayed puberty is the failure to enter puberty by the age of 18 years. However, many patients and their parents may not readily adopt the wait and see tactic and instead may prefer additional periodic assessments. One option is to follow with pelvic ultrasound studies looking for the appearance of the multifollicular ovary associated with the early stages of pubertal progression. It would be ideal that no adolescent would reach mid teenage years without spontaneous or exogenously-induced pubertal development! Acquired Abnormalities A number of acquired medical conditions may interfere with either the production of GnRH and/or gonadotropin secretion producing a hypogonadotropic hypogonadal state (Tables III and IV) (83,85). The Children’s Hospital series refers to many of these as functional disorders (85). Endocrine disorders such as hypothyroidism, congenital adrenal hyperplasia, Cushing syndrome, and hyperprolactinemia that begin before or during the early pubertal process may interfere with gonadotropin secretion. While only some cases of growth hormone deficiency are acquired, this disorder is included here with
