Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


that begin before or during the early pubertal process may interfere with gonadotropin secretion. While only some cases of growth hormone deficiency are acquired, this disorder is included here with the other endocrinopathies. Patients with unusually short stature, pubertal delay, and low gonadotropin levels should be considered as having one of the endocrinopathies that also affects growth (i.e., hypothyroidism and growth hormone deficiency). Treatment of these disorders will allow the resumption of puberty. Systemic illnesses including malabsorption states, eating disorders, active autoimmune diseases, and the rare hypoxemic states related to congenital heart malformations or severe anemias (i.e., sickle cell) are also occasionally etiologic for hypogonadotropism and pubertal delays. Most of these conditions are similarly reversible. Finally, pituitary tumors are consistently reported in rare patients of all descriptive delayed puberty series (83). The craniopharyngioma occurs usually between the ages of 6 and14 years prior to the usual time onset of puberty. It is an aggressive tumor that causes early destruction of the pituitary and suprasellar regions and usually delays any pubertal development. On the other hand, it can also be an indolent tumor not becoming apparent until the late teenage years or even the mid 20’s. The typical calcification of these tumors makes them easily diagnosed radiologically. Unlike the craniopharyngioma, the prolactinoma usually does not develop until after puberty is initiated. Estrogen is known to increase messenger RNA for prolactin and its increase at puberty is seemingly associated with the development of prolactinomas in at-risk individuals. For these patients, the prolactinoma usually arrests a pubertal process that has begun on time. These tumors are extremely slow growing and rarely interfere with other pituitary functions, if at all. If a dopamine agonist is given to lower the prolactin levels, puberty or menstrual function will usually proceed normally. The prolactinoma now outnumbers the craniopharyngioma as a cause of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (83). Congenital Abnormalities A number of disorders classically felt to be irreversible are found in patients with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. Some of these patients present with fractional or complete pituitary insufficiency. The majority of patients have been historically categorized with idiopathic hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (IHH) and, despite the fact that specific causes have now been identified for as many as 30% of them, the label of IHH has persisted. Such patients have absence of spontaneous pubertal development that persists beyond age 18 years; hypogonadotropism is usually the isolated pituitary deficiency for them. Specifically they have
