Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


of IHH has persisted. Such patients have absence of spontaneous pubertal development that persists beyond age 18 years; hypogonadotropism is usually the isolated pituitary deficiency for them. Specifically they have functional GnRH deficiency. Numerous studies involving frequent blood sampling have demonstrated 4 different aberrant patterns of gonadotropin secretion. The majority of patients with IHH demonstrated apulsatile secretion and the remainder were divided between sleep entrained pulsitility, decreased pulse frequency, and decreased pulse amplitude (191). Both syndromic and nonsyndromic etiologies exist. Kallmann syndrome (KS) refers to IHH with anosmia or hyposmia. The association of IHH with anosmia is not surprising given that the GnRH secretory neurons originate within the olfactory placode and then migrate to the hypothalamus extending their axons to the median eminence. Normosmic IHH (nIHH) refers to those IHH patients with a normal sense of smell. A number of genes have been identified that regulate development and migration of GnRH neurons, the production, processing and secretion of GnRH, and its expression at the receptor. (192) Mutations have been identified within these genes which result in both KS and IHH and will be discussed further in this chapter. X-linked KS and some of the patients with mutations in these other genes may have unilateral renal agenesis (KAL1 mutations in males), midline facial defects, or neurologic and skeletal abnormalities (193,194). It has always been intriguing that variable phenotypes have existed within families harboring the same IHH mutation (193-195). Perhaps more intriguing have been the reports that 10% of males with IHH, some with mutations within genes regulating GnRH neuronal development or secretion, have reversal of their disorder and spontaneous continued reproductive function after discontinuation of treatment that may have been given for months or years (196). Recent studies of adult onset hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in males with prior reproductive function have also reported finding the same mutations shared by those men who never initiated puberty. A series of 32 male patients with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism were assessed after treatment withdrawal and 6% had recovery of gonadal function.(197) Similarly, reversible hypogonadotropic hypogonadism has been reported after years of treatment in women, one who also had anosmia (personal patient, reported only in abstract form, Goldstein, Fertil Steril 2011,96: S116, ), and an adult onset form has been identified in women with hypothalamic amenorrhea sharing similar mutations.(198) Taken together, with the prior information about similar mutations in some patients with constitutional delay of puberty, what was
