Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


has been identified in women with hypothalamic amenorrhea sharing similar mutations.(198) Taken together, with the prior information about similar mutations in some patients with constitutional delay of puberty, what was previously labeled as IHH appears often to be a part of a spectrum disorder with overlap between constitutional delay of puberty (spontaneous early resolution), irreversible forms in both males and females, late onset forms in individuals who first established reproductive function, and late reversible forms in patients with prior longstanding hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. All of these forms of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism have been shown to have some patients with mutations in the same genes. A number of other genetic defects have been found to cause hypogonadotropic hypogonadism such as leptin deficiency and adrenal hypoplasia congenital (193,199-206). Besides IHH, forms of hypopituitarism also exist and result in delayed puberty with hypogonadotropism. Included are septo-optic dysplasia (SOD) (207,208), combined pituitary hormone deficiency (CPHD) (209-212), CHARGE syndrome (213,214), Prader-Willi Syndrome, and Laurence-Moon-Bidel-Bardet Syndromes. Finally, other forms of hypopituitarism exist, some of which are associated with anatomic abnormalities such as Rathke’s pouch cysts, anterior encephalocele, and hydrocephalus (83). Molecular Findings As in the patients with hypergonadotropic hypogonadism, molecular research has provided new insight into the clinical findings of a number of patients with hypogonadotropism. In particular, these studies have helped to better understand the variation of clinical presentation and gonadotropin levels, and the different responses to exogenous GnRH reported in these patients. For men with Kallmann syndrome, the first mutations found were those involving a cell surface adhesive gene, the KAL1 gene (215-217). The initial identification of these mutations began our understanding of the anosmia and hypogonadotropic state for KS patients; such mutations prevent normal development of the neurologic tract responsible for transport of GnRH to the median eminence and the olfactory bulb (193,218-221). Subsequently, a number of these men were also found to have unilateral renal agenesis. While similar mutations have not yet been identified in anosmic females, it is likely that a few will ultimately be uncovered. The second molecular finding involved nIHH patients and was the identification of mutations in the GnRH receptor gene (222-225). Since then, a host of mutations have been identified in hypogonadotropic patients; genes involved generally have their adverse effects in the hypothalamus, pituitary, or both. Hypothalamic defects that are etiologic for KS and/ or nIHH involve mutations in genes responsible for GnRH production (GNRH1 gene) (226), GnRH processing
