Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


for GnRH. Some are sufficiently tightly involved with the optic bulb development (KAL1) that all patients with mutations have anosmia. Mutations in others (FGFR1) may result in either anosmic or normosmic IHH. It also appears that if a mutation exists in one of the genes that prevents normal neuronal development (e.g., FGFR1), rarely sufficient development may ultimately occur in the absence of this seemingly critical protein either with time or induced from hormone therapy such that reversal of this disorder may occur in a few patients (196). There seems to be overlap between these genes as well, given that patients may be compound heterozygotes with two mutations and each in a different gene (249). In addition, several patients have presented with a KS-like phenotype and found to have mutations in CHD7 gene, usually etiologic for the CHARGE syndrome (238). Contemporary Issues for Management As has been elaborated, numerous different disorders exist for patients presenting with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. Many of these are rare and best managed by specialists who treat the specific disorder, each disorder having very specific individual clinical concerns. It should be determined early whether treatment of the disorder will allow subsequent pubertal progression or whether a form of hypogonadotropism exists for which puberty will not progress without sex steroid replacement. Early hormone therapy is critical for the management of such patients. Similarly important is the individual counseling about expectations for pubertal development, associated problems, reproductive options, and chance of recurrence or reversal. No doubt, this may require a multidisciplinary team approach. An interesting finding of the Children’s Hospital study was that it provided evidence that there may be an association between hypogonadotropic hypogonadal causes of delayed puberty and attention deficit disorder with or without hyperactivity (85). Finally, as more and more gene mutations are identified in IHH patients, an understanding of minor phenotypic findings associated with them may make earlier diagnosis possible. When seen, for example, in an extremely obese adolescent, leptin or leptin receptor mutations should be considered. Eugonadism The MCG series presented a third group of females with pubertal abnormalities and evidence of ongoing estrogen production. These patients primarily present with delayed menarche. Anatomic Abnormalities Congenital absence of the uterus and vagina (CAUV), also known as müllerian aplasia or Meyer-Rokitansky-Kuster-Hauser-syndrome (MRKH), is the second most common cause of pubertal aberrancy in the MCG series (84). In particular, these patients present with delayed menarche. They have fusion
