Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


müllerian aplasia or Meyer-Rokitansky-Kuster-Hauser-syndrome (MRKH), is the second most common cause of pubertal aberrancy in the MCG series (84). In particular, these patients present with delayed menarche. They have fusion failure of the two müllerian anlagen during embryogenesis. The normal fusion process is usually followed by canalization of the vagina. In its absence, small uterine remnants and their attached normal fallopian tubes remain; the vaginal plate and uterine remnant(s) are uncannalized. Rare patients will have a variable degree of uterine fusion and/or variable foci of functional endometrium (250). These patients progress through puberty at the normal time. They present with normal pubertal development and delayed menarche and on examination are found to have isolated absence of the vagina. They have normal ovarian function. Nearly 30% of these patients have concomitant renal abnormalities, including unilateral renal agenesis, horseshoe kidneys and urethral duplication. From 12 to 50% of these patients will have associated skeletal abnormalities, scoliosis being the most common and limb defects such as lobster claw hand deformity and phocomelia rarely present (83). Other abnormalities may also occur. Another group of patients who may present with an anatomic cause of delayed menarche are those with an imperforate hymen or rarely a transverse vaginal septum (TVS). Given the average age of menarche, most girls with an imperforate hymen will present several years before the age of 15 years and thus may not be “labeled” as presenting with primary amenorrhea. While a complete TVS causes a presentation similar to imperforate hymen, the majority of patients with a TVS will have perforations in their septum and will not present with absence of menses. Patients with an imperforate hymen or complete TVS initiate puberty at the normal time and present with cyclic pain, on average, within 1 to 2 years after menarche. Being obstructed, they develop an hematocolpos with or without an hematometra. On examination they are found to have an obstructing membrane, the thin imperforate hymen often bulging on valsalva maneuver or a thicker TVS. The latter is usually located at the junction of the upper one-third of the vagina but can be at lower levels as well and because of its thickness usually does not bulge on valsalva. Once these obstructing membranes are surgically excised normal menstrual function usually follows. In contrast to patients with outlet obstruction, those with vaginal agenesis will usually have normal hymeneal tissue and either an absent vagina or
