Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


surgically excised normal menstrual function usually follows. In contrast to patients with outlet obstruction, those with vaginal agenesis will usually have normal hymeneal tissue and either an absent vagina or a small pouch created by attempts at coitus. For them, there is never a midline mass on rectal exam. Molecular Findings Because patients with CAUV were never previously able to have children, the inheritance pattern for most of them has been generally unknown and clues for potential candidate genes have remained elusive. The majority of these patients are sporadic occurrences within their family. Rare sibships with several non-twin sisters affected have been reported and twins both concordant and discordant for CAUV also exist (83). A report of the outcome of pregnancy for these patients who were able to have their own biological children through IVF utilizing a gestational host suggests that this condition is not commonly autosomal dominant; none of the female babies were found to be similarly affected (251). A number of genes have been proposed as candidate for harboring germ-line mutations etiologic for the syndrome of CAUV. The anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH), anti-Müllerian hormone receptor (AMHR), and other genes involved in the pathway of AMH directed müllerian regression (e.g., the β-catenin gene) have been considered likely candidates. Since a number of somatic systems are involved in this syndrome, studies have centered around developmental genes and in particular, the HOX family of genes. In addition, HOXA10 is expressed in the developing paramesonephric ducts. Mutations in HOXA13 have been associated with the hand-foot-genital syndrome and in HOXD13 have caused synpolydactyly in humans. Furthermore, the PBX1 gene protein is thought to be a HOX cofactor during müllerian and renal development. Other developmental gene candidates considered have included the PAX2, Wilms tumor transcription factor (WT1), and WNT4 genes as well as genes controlling the synthesis of retinoic acid receptors, the RAR-gamma and RXR-alpha genes. The latter 3 of these genes, when mutated in mice, have produced müllerian abnormalities. Finally, given that cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene mutations cause congenital absence of the vas in men and that the early wolffian anlagen seemingly direct müllerian development in females, this gene too has entered the list of suspects. Our laboratory has performed mutation analyses for a number of these candidate genes in müllerian aplasia patients including CFTR (252), WNT7, AMH (253), AMHR (253), HOXA10 (254,255), HOXA13 (256), galactose-1-phosphate uridyl transferase (GALT), PAX2 (257),
