Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


classic Mayer-Rokitansky-Kuster-Hauser syndrome have been found to harbor a mutation in a host of very likely candidate genes? Explanations might include: (1) the presence of mutations in yet-to-be-studied candidate genes; (2) multifactorial inheritance; or, (3) the presence of nonconventional genetic mechanisms. The latter seems to be an attractive explanation. In particular, this condition has the characteristics of disorders such as McCune-Albright Syndrome that are caused by somatic cell rather than germ-line mutations; somatic cell mutations occur at some point after fertilization in the dividing somatic cells of the embryo or in stable somatic cells later in life. They are almost never present in the germ cells. As a result the patient is usually a random occurrence within a family and neither inherits nor passes this condition on to the next generation. If this occurs during development (such as seen in McCune-Albright syndrome), the mutated somatic cells will migrate to various areas of the fetus; the phenotype always being consistent, but often with some variation dependent on the final location of the affected cells. The vast majority of patients with Mayer-Rokitansky-Kuster-Hauser syndrome are the only such affected member of a family. The consistent phenotypic findings in these patients all involve the loss of structural integrity (müllerian aplasia, renal agenesis, and bone defects) and some degree of variability exists with which specific system is involved. Patients with scoliosis, lobster claw defects and congenital amputations represent the extreme variation. Somatic cell mutations would easily explain each of these occurrences. The report of identical twins, one with isolated vaginal agenesis and the other with bilateral tibial longitudinal deficiency (congenital leg amputations) (270) makes a strong case that somatic cell mutations beginning in the initial embryo migrated to the bones in one twin and to the developing müllerian system of the other, after the process of identical twinning. Unfortunately, if, in fact, somatic cell mutations are etiologic for most cases of müllerian aplasia and involve genes that cause loss of structural integrity, the cells with the culprit mutations may no longer be present for analysis. They may have been in the original cells of the now absent uterus, vagina, kidney or bone. A recent comparative study of different tissues (blood, saliva, rudimentary uterus) in 5 pairs of discordant monozygotic twins found differences in copy number variations utilizing SNP microarray technology in the affected twin compared to non-affected twin in the following genes: MMP-14, LRP- 10,
