Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


pairs of discordant monozygotic twins found differences in copy number variations utilizing SNP microarray technology in the affected twin compared to non-affected twin in the following genes: MMP-14, LRP- 10, ECM, and neoangiogenesis genes. There were no differences between the mutation analyses in saliva, but similar differences in the blood and uterine tissue, mesodermal derivatives, suggesting a tissue specific mosaicism.(271) For the transverse vaginal septum and imperforate hymen patients, molecular analysis has been essentially nonexistent. Contemporary Issues for Management The diagnosis of CAUV is essentially clinical. The classic finding of absence of the vagina or a vaginal pouch (usually developed through prior coital attempts) associated with otherwise Tanner stage 5 breast and pubic hair development is unlikely anything else but CAUV. A search for associated physical findings of bony malformations (commonly scoliosis) and rarely inguinal hernias or scars from prior repair should be conducted. The inguinal hernias occur because the round ligaments can pull the unconnected uterine remnants and associated fallopian tubes and ovaries into the inguinal canals. The diagnosis of CAUV can be confirmed simply by a pelvic ultrasound study that demonstrates the presence of ovaries with follicular activity. The midline uterus will not be seen. Neither a karyotype nor laparoscopy is necessary for the diagnosis in the majority of CAUV patients. The prepubertal patient could be misdiagnosed with AIS. However, post-pubertal the clinical findings for CAUV and AIS are sufficiently different that diagnosis of each is usually straightforward. If in doubt, a serum total testosterone level is the least expensive method of resolving the confusion; levels within the female and male ranges will differentiate the two conditions. One must now always consider, however, the WNT4 mutation syndrome for which patients with müllerian aplasia may manifest symptoms or biochemical evidence of androgen excess and reduced ovarian reserve. Although not currently recommended as first-line management, treatment of this condition has previously been surgical; a number of different surgical techniques have been utilized for creation of the vagina. In the United States, the McIndoe vaginoplasty has been the most commonly performed surgery for neovaginal creation. This is the classic procedure in which a skin graft is sewn around a mold and inserted into a newly dissected vaginal space. After a skin graft takes, the patient wears a vaginal mold for an extended period of time and until regular coitus to prevent scarring down of the neovagina. In other parts of the
