Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


graft takes, the patient wears a vaginal mold for an extended period of time and until regular coitus to prevent scarring down of the neovagina. In other parts of the world and some areas of the US, the Vecchietti procedure is more commonly performed. In this procedure an olive shaped instrument is placed at the perineal dimple and pulled inward under tension by attached wires, sutures, or threads stretching the perineal skin in the direction of the normal vaginal axis. The tension cords were originally placed by abdominal surgery and in more recent years have been placed by laparoscopy (272-276). Another procedure, the Davydov procedure, was developed in Russia and is gaining popularity worldwide including the US (277,278). In this procedure, laparoscopic assistance is used to bring peritoneum from the pouch of Douglas into the space created for the neovagina. A purse-string suture is placed at the top and the neovagina is created. Results of both of these alternatives have been overall very encouraging (279-281). The majority of patients, however, can avoid surgery altogether and should be encouraged to attempt creation of a neovagina first by the Ingram dilation technique (282,283). Experts have agreed that the nonsurgical approach should be the first line approach because it is successful in approximately 90% of patients, is less morbid than surgery, and is not associated with possible contracture (284,285). A vaginal dilator is held in place at the vaginal dimple with athletic underwear. The patient then sits on a bicycle seat of a stationary bicycle or a specially designed chair for regular periods of time. The size of the mold is increased over time and until a normal sized vagina is created or coitus can be initiated. With motivated patients and careful instructions and follow-up the majority of patients will succeed. When new patients are paired up with prior successful CAUV patients for support, this method rarely fails. Patient pairing is particularly helpful for the emotional support and personal advice that only women who have weathered the various challenges of this condition can provide. The assisted reproductive technologies have provided these women a means of having their own biological children. The use of gestational carriers with IVF after oocyte retrieval and fertilization has made this possible. Given that the CAUV patient and her husband are the biological parents of these children, legal issues involving the gestational carriers are certainly better delineated and problems
