Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


made this possible. Given that the CAUV patient and her husband are the biological parents of these children, legal issues involving the gestational carriers are certainly better delineated and problems arising from them much less likely than were the initial uses of surrogacy. Recent advances in uterine transplantation have led to the first live born infant and several additional pregnancies from a transplanted uterus to patients with MRKH. The Swedish team spent years of preparation and experimentation beginning with animal models understanding basics of the surgeries involved as well as immunosuppression. They developed separate teams for removing and implanting the uteri. In some parts of the world, including Sweden, the use of gestational carriers is banned. As a result, uterine transplantation is the only hope in these countries for having a biological child for these women with MRKH. Since this therapy remains highly experimental and fraught with both medical and ethical concerns regarding potential surgical complications as well as issues from immunosuppression, it should only be performed by teams as well prepared as the Swedish team, who has completed this remarkable feat. Counseling patients with vaginal agenesis and other disorders of sexual development (DSD) requires special skills and sensitivities and is covered briefly at the end of this chapter. The imperforate hymen and the transverse vaginal septum are surgically treated by one of a number of procedures described in most gynecologic textbooks. These procedures are usually straightforward. Occasionally the transverse vaginal septum is difficult and requires more involved surgery including an abdominal approach, a Z-plasty or skin graft. None-the-less, only an experienced surgeon should perform all of these procedures. CHRONIC ANOVULATION Polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) and a number of other endocrine abnormalities may result in chronic anovulation and may present as delayed menarche as reported in the MCG series (83). Although most patients with PCOS present in adolescence with menstrual irregularity, occasionally a patient will present with primary amenorrhea. If patients are androgenzied and have not menstruated they should be evaluated by at least age 14 years as covered above. These patients may not have their first menses until given a progestin challenge. While most of them have classic PCOS, other endocrinopathies and hypothalamic dysfunction need to be ruled out. The contemporary management of PCOS and its associated gynecologic and metabolic disorders includes evaluation for diabetes and hyperlipidemias and consideration for treatment of it as an insulin resistant state in
