Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


The contemporary management of PCOS and its associated gynecologic and metabolic disorders includes evaluation for diabetes and hyperlipidemias and consideration for treatment of it as an insulin resistant state in addition to the classic management considerations of ovarian suppression, endometrial protection, as well as androgen targeted treatments. This topic is covered in greater detail elsewhere in this text. DISORDERS OF SEXUAL DEVELOPMENT Patients with androgen insensitivity present at puberty with normal onset of breast development, absent pubic hair, and delayed menarche. These 46,XY women have been found to harbor mutations in their androgen receptor genes that render their androgen receptors nonfunctional. Despite normal testes development and normal male testosterone production, they are unable to convert the testosterone signal into the end organ events of masculinization of the external genitalia in-utero or at puberty. They present with a normal female phenotype and a small blind vaginal pouch. At puberty, their androgens are converted to estrogens with normal breast development. They are usually taller than predicted by mid-parental height for females because of the presence of the Y chromosome and its associated statural genes. The presence of the Y chromosome places them at risk for developing malignancies of their gonads and dictates removal. Unlike gonadal dysgenesis patients, the risk does not increase until after puberty; additionally, these tumors are usually seminomas rather than the gonadoblastomas or germ cell tumors. Unless the testes are located within the inguinal canals, they are usually left in place until after breast development is complete. Molecular Findings Androgen insensitivity syndrome has been extensively studied by molecular analysis (286,287). A number of intriguing and frustrating findings have been made. First, mutations have been found in virtually every portion of the androgen receptor (AR) gene (288). Mutations in the hormone binding region of the AR gene have explained those classic patients previously determined to have nonfunctional androgen receptors. Mutations in the DNA binding domain helped explain why other AIS patients with the same classic phenotype had normally binding androgen receptors. Second, many families studied have mutations unique to their specific family (286). Until gene sequencing is routine, this precludes studying patients with a suspicious AIS phenotype for a specific AR mutation. Third, identification of mutations in this gene has widened the spectrum of incomplete AIS phenotypes to include phenotypic females with genital ambiguity, phenotypic males separately with undermasculinization (289), gynecomastia, breast cancer (290), prostatic cancer, or azoospermia/severe oligospermia (291).
