Abnormalities of Female Pubertal Development
KEYWORDS: patients, puberty, syndrome, mutations, ovarian, precocious, turner, development, growth, gene, years, precocious puberty, genes, girls, turner syndrome


widened the spectrum of incomplete AIS phenotypes to include phenotypic females with genital ambiguity, phenotypic males separately with undermasculinization (289), gynecomastia, breast cancer (290), prostatic cancer, or azoospermia/severe oligospermia (291). Fourth, individuals with the same mutations have exhibited varying phenotypes (288,292,293). Finally, clinical correlations have been made between specific mutations and the ability to masculinize further with exogenous androgens for those individuals with a male sex of rearing and not presenting as delayed female puberty (294,295). Contemporary Issues for Management For the classic patient with AIS who presents with delayed menarche, absent pubic hair, and a vaginal pouch, an expedient evaluation and diagnosis is necessary. Unlike the CAUV patients, once the diagnosis of AIS is suspected, chromosomal analysis is necessary to document a 46,XY karyotype. It is necessary to remove the gonads in patients with AIS (296). This can be done after puberty to allow spontaneous breast development. Support for this includes the fact that the earliest reported malignancy in patients with AIS is 14 years of age. No doubt, one of the most critical issues related to this syndrome is counseling. No longer is it possible or advisable to hide the presence of the 46,XY finding from these patients. However, a multidisciplinary and well thought out approach and close follow-up is needed for such counseling. The psychosexual transition during adolescence is difficult and patients with intersex disorders/disorders of sexual development will face an even more difficult transition. Patients and their family require support and should be actively involved in the decision processes. Links to a variety of support groups for specific disorders can be found on the Disorders of Sexual Development website (296,297). Many of these patients have a vaginal pouch, the embryonic remnant of the prostatic utricle. For them, coital attempts will enlarge the vagina and surgery is not needed. For others a similar, although somewhat different, approach can be utilized as was described for the patients with CAUV. Furthermore, once gonadectomy is performed, estrogen replacement therapy is essential for all of the obvious reasons. REFERENCES Tanner JM, Whitehouse RH. Clinical longitudinal standards for height, weight, height velocity, weight velocity, and stages of puberty. Archives of disease in childhood. 1976;51(3):170-179. Marshall WA, Tanner JM. Variations in pattern of pubertal changes in girls. Archives of disease in childhood. 1969;44(235):291-303. Herman-Giddens ME, Slora EJ, Wasserman RC, Bourdony CJ, Bhapkar MV, Koch GG, Hasemeier CM. Secondary sexual characteristics and menses in
