Hayashietal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2017) 17:40
KEYWORDS: cinaedi, case, ceftriaxone, meropenem, intracranial, abscess, culture, treatment, cases, drainage, subdural, infection, blood, fig, antimicrobial


DOI10.1186/s12879-016-2129-3 CASE REPORT Open Access Helicobacter Unusual manifestation of cinaedi infection: a case report of intracranial subdural empyema and bacteremia Toshimasa Hayashi1* , Junko Tomida2, Yoshiaki Kawamura2, Masakazu Yoshida3, Ikuyo Yokozawa3 and Shingaku Kaneko3 Abstract Background: There have been various reportsconcerningHelicobactercinaedi infections.However, few reports have examined central nervous system infections. Case presentation: A 52-year-old man was transferred from thelocal hospital because ofa persistent headache and suspected intracranial subduralempyema. Neurosurgical drainage was performed via burr holes. Gram staining and results from abscess cultures were negative. The blood culture yielded H. cinaedi.He was given an antibiotic regimen consisting of2 gof ceftriaxonetwice a day, but the size of the abscess was notreduced in size at allafter 3weeks of treatment. Neurosurgical drainage was performed again, and theantimicrobial regimen was switched to 2g ofmeropenem 3times a day. The size oftheabscess was reduced after 2 weeks of thesecond drainage and antimicrobial drug change to meropenem. After 4 weeks treatment with meropenem, the patient was discharged, and his symptoms had completely resolved. Conclusions: H. cinaedi infection should be consideredin thedifferential diagnosis of subdural empyema cases for which Gram staining and abscess culture resultsare negative.Meropenem can be a first-line drug ofchoice or an effective alternative treatment for H. cinaedi central nervous system infections. Keywords: Helicobacter cinaedi,Intracranial subdural empyema, Antimicrobial susceptibility testing, Case report Background Case presentation The first report of a Helicobacter cinaedi infection in- A 52-year-old man with a history of epilepsy and volved a man with proctitis in 1984 . Since then, drug eruption due to an amoxicillin/clavulanate was various foci of H. cinaedi infection have been re- transferred from the local hospital because of a per- ported. However, few reports have examined central sistent headache and a suspicion of chronic subdural nervous system (CNS) infections, and the optimal hematoma. There were no other symptoms before therapy for CNS infection is unknown. Here, we re- the persistent headache occurred, and he could per- port a case of intracranial subdural empyema and form his work normally. He had no history of head bacteremia due to H. cinaedi, in which the patient ex- trauma and no meningeal irritation symptoms, such perienced treatment failure after a maximum dose of as neck stiffness. He kept an outdoor dog for years, ceftriaxone. Finally, he was treated successfully with but he had no contact with other animals, such as adequate drainage and meropenem. rats, hamsters, dogs, cats, birds, or monkeys, during the
