Hayashietal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2017) 17:40
KEYWORDS: cinaedi, case, ceftriaxone, meropenem, intracranial, abscess, culture, treatment, cases, drainage, subdural, infection, blood, fig, antimicrobial


antibiotic regimen con- ported cases of H. cinaedi central nervous system in- sisting of 2 g of ceftriaxone twice a day. The blood fections. Three cases concerned meningitis in adults culture results were negative, but the size of the ab- [2–4], and the final case was a case of meningitis and scess was not reduced in size at all after 3 weeks of bacteremia in a neonate . None of those reported treatment (Fig. 1b). cases were associated with abscess formation. We Neurosurgical drainage was performed again, and must consider H. cinaedi as a causative organism of the antimicrobial regimen was switched to 2 g of culture-negative intracranial SDE. meropenem 3 times a day. Although the microaero- Treatment failure with ceftriaxone in cases of H. bic culture of the abscess was negative, H. cinaedi cinaedi intracranial SDE can occur if the MIC value was identified from the abscess and blood culture by for ceftriaxone is 4 μg/mL or higher. We initially cdtB virulence factor gene-based PCR. The 16S rRNA chose ceftriaxone as definitive therapy because anti- sequence analysis revealed with 100% similarity be- biotic regimens including ceftriaxone effectively tween the abscess and blood culture (Fig. 2). treated H. cinaedi meningitis in the previous four Hayashietal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2017) 17:40 Page3of4 Fig.2Phylogenetictreeofhelicobactercinaedi.Neighbor-joiningtreeshowingthepositionwithinthespeciesofthegenusHelicobacter,based on16SrRNAgenesequence.Thenumbersatthebranchingpointsarebootstrapvalues.Campylobacterfetussubsp.fetuswasusedastheout group.Thenumbersinparenthesesaretheaccessionnumbersofthegenesequences.Arrowsindicatethepositionofstrainsfromtheabscessor bloodsourceinthiscase case reports. Antimicrobial susceptibility testing but there is a possibility of treatment failure especially (AST) for H. cinaedi isolates was not performed in in the presence of an abscess. On the other hand, these cases, probably because AST for H. cinaedi is when 2 g of meropenem was administered every 8 h, too cumbersome to perform routinely in hospital la- the concentration in the cerebrospinal fluid was re- boratories . ported to be 1.29 μg/mL, even in the trough value However, in the present case, AST yielded useful , which is considerably higher than the MIC in this information for changing the therapeutic strategy. case (0.06 μg/mL). Therefore, meropenem can be a With the doses normally used to treat bacterial men- first-line drug of choice or an effective alternative ingitis, the concentrations of ceftriaxone in cerebro- treatment for CNS infection, especially when the MIC spinal fluid range from 2 to 8 μg/mL, and levels are value is 0.06 μg/mL or lower. nearly constant in children and adults . These In conclusion, H. cinaedi infection should be con- concentrations are close to the MIC observed in this sidered in
