Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2016 March 21; 22(11): 3117-3126
KEYWORDS: pmid, tight, epithelial, doi, claudin, expression, barrier, pmid doi, junction, disease, permeability, cell, tight junction, function, intestinal


inflammatory bowel and/or charge selective and prevent contact between diseases and inflammatory bowel disease associated colorectal the proteins of the two cell poles: the basolateral and cancer. World J Gastroenterol 2016; 22(11): 3117-3126 Available apical cell membranes. While many tight junction from: URL: proteins have properties of increased barrier formation, htm DOI: others form size and/or charge selective channels or pores. Adherens junctions and desmosomes are mostly involved in communication between neighbouring epithelial cells. TJ dysfunction can INTRODUCTION lead to the disruption of the intestinal barrier integrity. Changes in pH, osmotic load or cytoskeleton function A number of routes exist for passage across the all affect the barrier function of TJs. epithelial barrier between the internal and external There are 27 different claudin isoforms that environment. The intercellular spaces between modulate the paracellular movement of ions based on adjacent cells, linked together by junctional complexes, charge and size. Claudin 1 and claudin 2 are able are critical in regulating the mucosal barrier. Ions to initiate the formation of TJ strands on fibroblasts and solutes pass transcellulary utilising channels, lacking TJs, suggesting that they are the major carriers and transporting ATPases. The paracellular components of TJ strands. Claudin 2 controls the pathway also regulates permeability to water, ions movement of monovalent cations such as Na+ to and low molecular weight molecules (< 600 kDa). the interstitium and reduces the paracellular trans- The differences in paracellular permeability between epithelial resistance as well as enhances trans- different epithelia such as the proximal or distal epithelial water flux in contrast to other claudins nephron, has led to the concept of “leaky” or “tight” (like 1, 3, 4, 5, 8) that tighten the epithelium[17-23]. epithelia. In disease states, epithelia may become Claudin 2 also directly decreases the barrier function of more “tight” or more “leaky” such as is seen in Claudin 1 and Claudin 4 strands. Therefore the ratio inflammatory bowel diseases. of different claudins in the TJ determines its functional The tight junctions (TJs) form the apical most property as either leaky or tight. This review will focus unit, defining the boundary between the apical and on the role of key TJPs (Table 1) in the pathogenesis of basolateral membranes and are predominantly the IBD and IBD associated colorectal cancer (CRC). rate-limiting factor in paracellular passage. The tight junction is built up by both transmembrane proteins such as occludin, tricellulin, different claudins EPITHELIAL BARRIER
