Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2016 March 21; 22(11): 3117-3126
KEYWORDS: pmid, tight, epithelial, doi, claudin, expression, barrier, pmid doi, junction, disease, permeability, cell, tight junction, function, intestinal


IBD and IBD associated colorectal cancer (CRC). rate-limiting factor in paracellular passage. The tight junction is built up by both transmembrane proteins such as occludin, tricellulin, different claudins EPITHELIAL BARRIER FUNCTION IN and junctional adhesion molecules (JAMs), as well INFLAMMATORY BOWEL DISEASES as peripheral membrane proteins such as zona occludens (ZO)-1,-2,-3 and cingulin. They are linked Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) share a to the cytoskeleton of the cell by F-actin and myosin multifactorial aetiology of genetic susceptibility, Ⅱ. These ZO proteins have three PDZ domains environmental factors and immune dysregulation. that mediate binding to other transmembrane tight These diseases are characterized by intestinal junction proteins such as claudins in a dynamic energy inflammation that compromises the integrity of the dependent manner. They are also the direct targets epithelial barrier leading to increased permeability WJG|www.wjgnet.com 3118 March 21, 2016|Volume 22|Issue 11| Landy J et al. Tight junctions in IBD Table 1 Tight junctions of interest in inflammatory bowel diseases TJ protein Function Expression in CD Expression in UC Expression in pouchitis Claudin 1 Tightens the epithelium able to initiate formation of TJ Active: ↑ ↔ Active: ↑, ↓ strands Inactive: ↔ ↔ Inactive: ↔ Claudin 2 Important pore-forming TJ protein, able to initiate ↑ ↑↑ ↑ formation of TJ strands, decreases barrier function of CLDN1 and CLDN4 Claudin 4 Tightens the epithelium, decreases paracellular conductance ↓ Active: ↓ ↔ through decrease in sodium permeability Active inflammation: ↑ Active Inflammation: ↑ ↔ Claudin 5 Tightens the epithelium ↓ ↔ Claudin 8 Tightens the epithelium ↓ Claudin 12 Tightens the epithelium ↑ Claudin 18 Uncertain function ↑ Occludin Binds ZO-1, regulates paracellular ↓ ↓ ↔ permeability, function in cellular ↔ ↔ adhesion ZO-1 Mediates protein-protein interactions, ↓ ↔ (Mees et al: “in ↓ (chronic link to actin cytoskeleton: “anchoring” patients with a history of pouchitis) protein UC”) TJ: Tight junction; ZO-1: Zona occludens-1; CD: Crohn’s disease; UC: Ulcerative colitis. and infiltration of pathogens. Both Crohn’s disease demonstrated an 80% reduction in epithelial resistance (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC) share common fea- and a decrease in epithelial (not crypt) TJ depth in tures such as epithelial breaks, a reduction in tight inflamed samples. junction strands, and glandular atrophy. Patients Several studies have focused on expression of with clinically active CD have increased intestinal claudins in UC patients[43-45]. demonstrating higher permeability[28-30]. Barrier dysfunction is likely to be expression of claudin 2 in colonic samples from
