Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2016 March 21; 22(11): 3117-3126
KEYWORDS: pmid, tight, epithelial, doi, claudin, expression, barrier, pmid doi, junction, disease, permeability, cell, tight junction, function, intestinal


expression of with clinically active CD have increased intestinal claudins in UC patients[43-45]. demonstrating higher permeability[28-30]. Barrier dysfunction is likely to be expression of claudin 2 in colonic samples from caused by epithelial damage including apoptosis, patients with UC. Additionally, the increases in “pore- erosion and ulceration that are characteristic of gut forming” claudin 2 correlate with disease severity on inflammation. Inflammatory cytokines associated with both protein and transcriptional levels. Reductions gut inflammation alter epithelial permeability through in other “tightening” tight junctions also occur their effects on the junctional complexes[31-33]. concomitantly. Reduced staining intensity for claudin However, impaired barrier function is also evident 3, 4 and 7 have been shown both on the surface in quiescent IBD and even in first degree relatives of epithelium as well as mislocation of claudin 4 extra- patients with CD. Genetic studies have identified junctionally in UC patients. new UC susceptibility loci pertaining to defects of the In contrast, Poritz et al found an increase in epithelial barrier. Barrier properties of ileoanal claudin 1:occludin ratios in colonic samples from pouch mucosa in both pouchitis and in ileoanal pouches UC patients compared with healthy controls and CD where backwash ileitis was present prior to restorative samples by Western blot analysis. This change in ratio proctocolectomy for UC are reduced[38-40] and increased was the result of both an increase in claudin 1 and a bacterial translocation has been reported in pouches decrease in occludin. Disease severity, measured by functioning for longer than 12 mo. Dysregulation the degree of inflammation, was directly proportional of the epithelial barrier with changes in paracellular to the alterations seen in TJ structure in UC. In another permeability due to altered cell to cell junctions is likely study, claudin 1 was demonstrated to be upregulated to be significantly more selective and may be a critical in the colon of UC patients compared to healthy primary factor in the pathogenesis of IBD. controls, but did not correlate to disease severity. In sigmoid samples of active UC patients, a trend toward upregulation of claudin 12 (another “tightening” ULCERATIVE COLITIS claudin) was observed. Claudin 18 expression Gitter et al identified that in the sigmoid colon was found to be elevated in UC patients compared of patients with early UC where the epithelium with controls, but did not correlate with severity of looks intact, there are in fact already leaks from inflammation postulating a primary defect
