Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2016 March 21; 22(11): 3117-3126
KEYWORDS: pmid, tight, epithelial, doi, claudin, expression, barrier, pmid doi, junction, disease, permeability, cell, tight junction, function, intestinal


patients with early UC where the epithelium with controls, but did not correlate with severity of looks intact, there are in fact already leaks from inflammation postulating a primary defect in barrier apoptotic foci. Furthermore, the higher the degree of function. inflammation observed, the higher the conductance of the epithelium measured. A study using epithelial CROHN’S DISEASE resistance as a measure of barrier function in samples from UC patients with inflamed sigmoid colon In CD, intestinal permeability is considered a predictive WJG|www.wjgnet.com 3119 March 21, 2016|Volume 22|Issue 11| Landy J et al. Tight junctions in IBD A B Tight Junction Complex Cell 1 Desmosomes Cell 2 0.1 μm Figure 1 Electron microscopy of pouch epithelium tight junction complex in non-inflamed pouch (A) and electron micrograph demonstrating dendritic cell penetrating between two epithelial cells in pouchitis (B). Bar = 0.1 μm. Solid arrow: Dendritic cell; Dashed arrow: Tight junction complex between epithelial cell and dendritic cell. factor for disease susceptibility and relapse. 1B). Analysis of claudin expression from pouch Changes in tight junctions and epithelial apoptosis biopsies before ileal pouch anal anastomosis (IPAA), might dominate in causing barrier dysfunction. Marin during pouchitis and at a time point over a year et al studied 10 patients with CD. The epithelial after ileostomy closure demonstrated an elevation cells of the terminal ileum from these patients in claudin 2 levels in acute pouchitis. We also demonstrated tight junction disorganisation which was recently demonstrated altered expression of TJP present in minimally inflamed areas although more in the ileal pouch of patients with UC. In particular pronounced in cobblestone areas. increased expression of claudin 2 occurred early In samples from the sigmoid colon in active CD, following ileostomy closure, prior to the development the expression of claudins 5, 8 and 3 were decreased, of histological inflammation. Claudin 2 was also whereas claudin 2 expression was moderately elevated in UC patients without pouchitis compared increased. Kucharzik et al demonstrated similar with FAP patients and in acute, but not chronic changes in tight junction expression in both UC and pouchitis samples whilst epithelial expression of ZO-1 CD with global down-regulation of occludin. This and claudin 1 were reduced in patients with chronic finding was present both in active and quiescent UC pouchitis. These findings suggest that increased whilst only in active CD. Das et al showed claudin 2 claudin 2 expression may be an early event in the
