Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2016 March 21; 22(11): 3117-3126
KEYWORDS: pmid, tight, epithelial, doi, claudin, expression, barrier, pmid doi, junction, disease, permeability, cell, tight junction, function, intestinal


and quiescent UC pouchitis. These findings suggest that increased whilst only in active CD. Das et al showed claudin 2 claudin 2 expression may be an early event in the to be strongly expressed in the ileum of approximately development of inflammation. 50% of quiescent as well as active CD. Moreover, the distribution of claudin 2 expression was altered in colonic biopsies from CD patients and associated with TIGHT JUNCTIONS AND IBD disrupted tight junctions. Others have found no change ASSOCIATED COLORECTAL CANCER in ileal expression of claudin 2 in CD, whilst in the sigmoid colon of CD patients, claudin 2 was found to Passage of luminal antigens or metabolites through be significantly down regulated compared to controls. diminished epithelial barrier is known to promote However, claudin 12 was found to be increased in the chronic inflammation and CRC[55-57]. In general, claudins ileum of CD patients. are associated with different types of neoplasms, including breast, prostate, ovarian, pancreatic, gastric and colorectal carcinoma. They may also be POUCHITIS involved in the progression to metastasis, and provide Barrier properties of ileoanal pouch mucosa in unfavourable signalling pathways between the extra- pouchitis and in non-inflamed pouches are reduced and intracellular milieu[60-63]. with increased bacterial translocation in long lasting Mees et al investigated the expression of both pouches. Merrett et al showed an increase in adherens, and TJ proteins in patients with CRC with pouch permeability in patients with pouchitis compared a history of UC. Claudins 1, 3, 4 and β-catenin were with those with a normally functioning pouch. Electron upregulated in CRC tissue compared with normal micrography of mucosal epithelium from non- controls or intraepithelial neoplasia, whilst the ex- inflamed UC pouch (Figure 1A) and pouchitis suggests pression of claudin 2, ZO-1 and occludin did not vary membranes between cells are more loosely arranged significantly between samples. Other studies have with increased intercellular distance and perijunctional demonstrated elevated claudin 1 and claudin 2 levels cytoskeleton condensation. In addition, dendritic in IBD-associated carcinoma. Kinugasa et al cells appear to penetrate the epithelial cell layer demonstrated increased staining for claudin 1 in both more frequently (personal communication) (Figure high-grade dysplasia and UC-associated CRC when WJG|www.wjgnet.com 3120 March 21, 2016|Volume 22|Issue 11| Landy J et al. Tight junctions in IBD compared with normal or UC colonic samples. were exerted presumably by decreasing expression of In the study of Weber et al, the expression of occludin and
