Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2016 March 21; 22(11): 3117-3126
KEYWORDS: pmid, tight, epithelial, doi, claudin, expression, barrier, pmid doi, junction, disease, permeability, cell, tight junction, function, intestinal


Tight junctions in IBD compared with normal or UC colonic samples. were exerted presumably by decreasing expression of In the study of Weber et al, the expression of occludin and increasing the expression of claudin 1 but claudin 1, 2, 4 and occludin were evaluated in IBD expression of claudin 2 or 3 were not affected. patients, IBD-associated dysplasia, acute self-limited TNF-α can also affect tight junctions and decrease colitis (ASLC) and sporadic adenomas. During active epithelial barrier function by increasing Myosin Light inflammation, claudin 1 expression was upregulated Chain Kinase (MLCK) phosphorylation. Inhibition of in both UC and CD patients and localization of claudin MLCK in TNF-α treated epithelial monolayers can 1 was not limited to the TJ, but was expressed on acutely restore barrier function. Furthermore, MLCK- the lateral membrane. Claudin 2 expression was the activation promotes IL-13 expression and claudin richest in the TJ region and the apical cytoplasm. In 2 synthesis. TNF-α induced MLCK expression an identical manner to claudin 1, the expression of may therefore be a critical mechanism for barrier claudin 2 correlated with the degree of inflammation dysfunction in UC and CD. Ileal MLCK expression in both UC and CD, but not in ASLC. Claudin 1 and is increased in ileal biopsies from patients with CD claudin 2 levels were also increased in IBD-associated compared with controls and increased MLCK correlates dysplasia and sporadic adenomas in comparison to with disease activity. non-dysplastic IBD. However, occludin expression and localization in both active and inactive IBD and in Animal models of epithelial permeability and adenomas or carcinomas was no different compared inflammation with controls. The changes in TJ expression in IBD A recent study of transgenic mice expressing activated associated dysplasia may represent the severity and MLCK showed increased paracellular permeability longevity of histological inflammation, a known risk without histological inflammation. Further analysis factor for neoplastic progression in IBD. however, found an increase in the absolute numbers of lamina propria CD4+ lymphocytes and a significant redistribution of CD11c+ dendritic cells to the CHICKEN OR EGG? superficial lamina propria as well as polarisation to a It is not clear whether the changes observed in tight Th1 cytokine profile. Despite increased epithelial junctions in IBD are causal, leading to abnormal permeability these mice did not develop intestinal epithelial barrier integrity and the aberrant immune inflammation. However, when crossed with mice that responses, or whether the inflammation itself
