Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2016 March 21; 22(11): 3117-3126
KEYWORDS: pmid, tight, epithelial, doi, claudin, expression, barrier, pmid doi, junction, disease, permeability, cell, tight junction, function, intestinal


leading to abnormal permeability these mice did not develop intestinal epithelial barrier integrity and the aberrant immune inflammation. However, when crossed with mice that responses, or whether the inflammation itself causes develop spontaneous inflammation an accelerated and the alterations in tight junction expression and exaggerated inflammatory response was seen. This distribution. mouse model therefore suggests that barrier loss may not initiate inflammation but accelerate inflammatory Inflammatory cytokines and tight junction regulation responses. Heller et al demonstrated a significant upregulation Other studies suggest that tight junction abnor- of IL-13 in patients with UC compared to CD patients malities and epithelial permeability may precede the and non-inflammatory controls. Following the upre- increase of inflammatory cytokines. Interleukin-10 gulation of IL-13, there was a decrease in trans- (IL-10) blocks IFN-γ induced epithelial permeability epithelial resistance and an increase in epithelial cell and IL-10 knockout mice have increased permeability apoptosis and conductance. Furthermore, IL-13 caused and spontaneously develop chronic intestinal inflam- an upregulation of the claudin 2 gene, thus elevating mation. Inhibition of the zonulin receptor (a key claudin 2 protein production threefold. IL-13 did not receptor in tight junction binding regulation) in have a significant effect on the expression of occludin, IL-10 knockout mice reduced intestinal permeability claudin 1 and claudin 4. and attenuated the spontaneous development of In CD, interferon gamma (IFN-γ) contributes to colitis. However, increased intestinal permeability impairment of epithelial barrier function through in IL-10 knockout mice not only preceded the onset disrupting tight junction complexes by causing of inflammation but also occurred significantly earlier decreased expression and increased internalization of than any differences in IFN-γ or TNF-α. occludin and ZO-1. The effects of IFN-γ on barrier A recent study of intestine-specific claudin 7 function may be mediated through 5’ adenosine knockout mice demonstrated increased neutrophil monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK). infiltration into the lamina propria and increased mRNA AMPK is key in sensing the cell’s energy levels, which expression of inflammatory cytokines without altered decrease during inflammation and subsequently epithelial integrity. Further investigation showed increase the demand for AMPK. Scharl et al showed increased epithelial permeability and paracellular that inhibiting AMPK not only reverses its effect on absorption of small molecules and increased absorption TJs but also its negative effect on trans epithelial of a bacterial derived neutrophil chemoattractant in resistance. Watson et al also showed in T84 the claudin 7 knockouts. Treatment with antibiotics cells (model intestinal epithelial cell line)
