Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2016 March 21; 22(11): 3117-3126
KEYWORDS: pmid, tight, epithelial, doi, claudin, expression, barrier, pmid doi, junction, disease, permeability, cell, tight junction, function, intestinal


trans epithelial of a bacterial derived neutrophil chemoattractant in resistance. Watson et al also showed in T84 the claudin 7 knockouts. Treatment with antibiotics cells (model intestinal epithelial cell line) that IFN-γ or exogenous administration of the soluble bacterial increased intestinal permeability to large molecules derived chemoattractant, abolished and initiated such as E. coli-derived lipopolysaccharide. Effects the onset of inflammation respectively. This model WJG|www.wjgnet.com 3121 March 21, 2016|Volume 22|Issue 11| Landy J et al. Tight junctions in IBD suggests that the loss of claudin 7 enabled increased plant extracts have been observed to regulate TJ absorption of soluble bacterial products leading to the expression. Quercetin, a common flavanoid increase development of colonic inflammation. epithelial resistance in Caco-2 cell monolayers by upregulating claudin 4 expression. Berberine, an Ileoanal pouch as a human model for inflammatory isoquinolone alkaloid, prevented TNF-α induced claudin bowel disease 1 disassembly and upregulation of claudin 2 in a cell Unlike UC and CD, the ileal pouch offers a unique culture model. Polyunsaturated fatty acids can also opportunity to study the development of inflammation have beneficial effects on the assembly and morphology before disease onset. In patients with UC, increased of TJs. Omega-3 and omega 6 polyunsaturated epithelial expression of the “pore-forming” tight fatty acids up-regulate expression of occludin, reduce junction claudin 2 was an early event after ileostomy permeability and strengthen the epithelial barrier closure and preceded increased IL-6 levels, as well as Polyunsaturated fatty acids also reverse the disruptions increased TLR4 and CD40 activation marker expression in TJs caused by proinflammatory cytokines in Caco 2 in patients with mucosal inflammation of the pouch at epithelial cells and might play a role in preventing twelve months following ileostomy closure. the alteration in the epithelial barrier caused by inflammation or proinflammatory cytokines that could be exploited as a therapeutic target in the treatment of THERAPEUTIC OPPORTUNITY IN gut inflammation. INFLAMMATORY BOWEL DISEASES Much attention has focused on the effects probiotic bacteria and their products may have on tight Strategies to manipulate tight junctions and intestinal junction expression and epithelial barrier function. permeability are likely to have an important role in the In vitro and animal models have shown Lactobacilli future treatment of inflammatory bowel diseases. to attenuate epithelial permeability in experimental colitis and to upregulate tight junction expression of Anti-TNF therapy and tight junctions ZO-1, occludin and claudin-3[93-95]. VSL#3 (a mixture Anti-TNF therapy is effective in the treatment
