Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastroenterol 2016 March 21; 22(11): 3117-3126
KEYWORDS: pmid, tight, epithelial, doi, claudin, expression, barrier, pmid doi, junction, disease, permeability, cell, tight junction, function, intestinal


permeability in experimental colitis and to upregulate tight junction expression of Anti-TNF therapy and tight junctions ZO-1, occludin and claudin-3[93-95]. VSL#3 (a mixture Anti-TNF therapy is effective in the treatment of Crohn’s of eight probiotic strains) prevented the reduction disease, ulcerative colitis and chronic pouchitis[74-76]. and redistribution of ZO-1 and claudins -1,-3,-4 Barrier function is significantly restored following and -5 in a murine model of colitis. Furthermore, anti-TNF therapy for CD. In the study by Zeissig bacterial products may be a source of novel therapies et al, this was associated with a reduction in affecting epithelial barrier function. Uncharacterized epithelial apoptosis but no significant changes in extracellular proteins secreted by B. longum subsp. occludin, claudin 1 or claudin 4. However, other infantis, increased the production of ZO-1 and occludin claudins including claudin 2 were not assessed. In a in epithelial cells. Extracellular proteins derived from study of experimental colitis in mice, both etanercept Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG attenuated reduction in and infliximab attenuated inflammation induced epithelial resistance in an in vitro model, preventing reductions in ZO-1 and occludin as well as reducing the redistribution of tight junction proteins including the upregulation of claudin 2. More recently, in ZO-1 and occludin in a dose dependent manner. epithelial cell lines adalimumab prevented increased Moreover, Salmonella infection increased claudin-2 phosphorylation of myosin light chain and reversed the expression in epithelial cell lines facilitating its TNF induced down regulation of claudins 1 and 4. invasion. Therefore, blocking claudin-2 as a potential therapeutic target to prevent bacterial invasion has Short chain fatty acids been suggested. In the colon, anaerobic bacterial fermentation of Zonulin has been shown to be a key regulator of undigested polysaccharides leads to the production intestinal permeability through modulation of epithelial of short chain fatty acids, particularly acetic, tight junctions. A synthetic peptide inhibitor proprionic and butyric acids. Short chain fatty acids, of zonulin known as AT 1001 or Larazotide has in particular butyrate are thought to be the principal undergone clinical studies in the treatment of coeliac source of energy for colonocytes and in UC patients disease. In the IL-10 knockout mouse, AT 1001 colonocytes have demonstrated diminished oxidation reduced intestinal permeability and attenuated the of butyrate. In vitro culture demonstrated butyrate development of spontaneous colitis. Future studies enhanced claudin 1 transcription and enhanced barrier are necessary to determine the role these proteins function. In colonic epithelial cells treated with may have
