United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: pancreas, fatty, fatty pancreas, pancreatic, fat, evidence, studies, study, consensus, risk, metabolic, pancreatic fat, associated, patients, level


future investigations, aiming to close existing knowledge gaps and guide evidence‐based clinical practice in this emerging field. 1 | Introduction 2.2 | Participating Societies A fatty pancreas is characterized by the abnormal accumulation The EPC invited other specialist member societies to join and of fat within the pancreatic tissue . The concept of fat endorse this project, with the aim of developing transversal accumulation in the pancreas has been recognized since the international multidisciplinary consensus report to be adopted early 20th century , although it was originally considered a by all specialties. The following societies delegated participants largely pathological finding, mainly observed at autopsy. Ad- and endorsed the project: EPC, American Pancreatic Associa- vances in imaging techniques have allowed for the more wide- tion (APA), European Association for the Study of Diabetes spread recognition of fatty pancreas, particularly in individuals (EASD), European Association for the Study of the Liver with metabolic risk factors . Historically, fatty pancreas was (EASL), European Society of Gastrointestinal and Abdominal seen mainly as a pathological curiosity, but it has gained greater Radiology (ESGAR), European Society of Gastrointestinal attention in recent years, especially due to its associations with Endoscopy (ESGE), European Society of Pathology (ESP), Eu- metabolic diseases and possible links to pancreatitis , and ropean Society for Primary Care Gastroenterology (ESPCG), pathophysiology and long‐term consequences of fatty pancreas (ESPEN), European Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology remain subjects of ongoing research. The nomenclature sur- Hepatology and Nutrition (ESPGHAN), International Associa- rounding fatty pancreas, however, remains inconsistent, posing tion of Pancreatology (IAP), Japan Pancreas Society (JPS), 2]. These challenges and gaps in understanding, particularly Pancreas Study group (LAPSG), and UEG (Table S1). Several regarding nomenclature, diagnosis, associations with other patient associations also endorsed this project: Digestive Can- diseases, management, and follow‐up, were the driving forces cers Europe, Pancreatic Cancer Europe, Arbeitskreis der Pan- behind the development of this consensus report. kreatektomierten e.V. (Germany), and PALEMA (Sweden). 2 | Methods 2.3 | Participants All participants (n = 84) signed the Conflict of Interest Form The development of this consensus report adhered to the UEG (Supporting Information S1). framework for the development of high‐quality clinical guide- lines, as proposed by the UEG Quality of Care Taskforce . 2.4 | Statements, Grades of Evidence, and Outcome Reporting 2.1 | Initiative and the Steering Committee The first meeting of the group was held online in January 2025. The initiative for the consensus
