United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: pancreas, fatty, fatty pancreas, pancreatic, fat, evidence, studies, study, consensus, risk, metabolic, pancreatic fat, associated, patients, level


Grades of Evidence, and Outcome Reporting 2.1 | Initiative and the Steering Committee The first meeting of the group was held online in January 2025. The initiative for the consensus report came from the European The working groups (Table S2) were finalized, and a leader Pancreatic Club (EPC) at the 56t h EPC Annual Meeting in responsible for each group (n = 16) was appointed. After the first Santiago de Compostela in June 2024. The Steering Committee meeting, each group performed a systematic review of the liter- was composed of two consensus report co‐chairs from the EPC ature by searching PubMed, Web of Science, Cochrane, and (MV, IED), one senior member of the EPC Quality of Care and Google Scholar (Supporting Information S2). The Steering Com- Guidelines Committee (PH), one council member of the EPC mittee consulted experts in methodology and research synthesis, Quality of Care and Guidelines Committee (RV), the general who were actively involved in all stages of the process. The secretary of the EPC (GC), the treasurer of the EPC (HW) and statement format included the question, statement, Oxford level three EPC representatives of United European Gastroenterology of evidence, the proportion of the global consensus group who (UEG)—the President (JML), Quality of Care Committee Chair agreed, and the comment in the final version. Statements were (GM), and a Quality of Care Committee Member (LA). Members formulated in the context of the population/problem, interven- of the Steering Committee were selected based on their expertise tion, comparison, and outcome (PICO) , where applicable. in the field, ability to contribute to the work process, and their The PICO framework defines the population investigated, inter- personal experience as effective team members familiar with the vention in question, comparator for assessing an alternative op- methodology of several previous guidelines [7–10]. tion, and outcome(s) used to assess the intervention . The 2 of 31 United European Gastroenterology Journal, 2026 indicate consensus (consensus threshold was defined a priori). Key Summary Although two iterative Delphi rounds were originally planned, • Summarise the established knowledge on this subject? with discussion and revision of statements between rounds, only ◦ Fatty pancreas is associated with pancreatitis, meta- a single voting round was conducted, as all statements reached bolic disorders, and possible neoplastic changes. consensus in the first round. The statements were discussed at ◦ Multiple, inconsistent terms and definitions have the 57th EPC Annual Meeting in Düsseldorf, Germany,
