United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: pancreas, fatty, fatty pancreas, pancreatic, fat, evidence, studies, study, consensus, risk, metabolic, pancreatic fat, associated, patients, level


disorders, and possible neoplastic changes. consensus in the first round. The statements were discussed at ◦ Multiple, inconsistent terms and definitions have the 57th EPC Annual Meeting in Düsseldorf, Germany, in July research communication. were mostly related to language editing/phrasing). Following ◦ Diagnosis relies on imaging, including radiological the consensus reached after the EPC 2025 and a final round of and endoscopic techniques, but lacks standardized adjustments, the manuscript was finalized. criteria. ◦ The clinical impact and causal mechanisms of fatty pancreas remain uncertain due to limited prospective 2.5.1 | Chapter 1 evidence. • What are the significant and/or new findings of this Question: What is the appropriate term? study? ◦ Establishes “fatty pancreas” as the standardized, in- Statement 1: The most suitable and encompassing term to describe clusive term for all forms of pancreatic fat all forms of fat in the pancreas is “fatty pancreas,” and we accumulation. ◦ Provides consensus‐based diagnostic imaging find- recommend its adoption for general use. ings utilizing radiological and endoscopic modalities. ◦ Integrates current evidence on etiology, epidemi- Level of evidence: N/A ‐ this is a consensus‐based terminology treatment considerations for fatty pancreas. ◦ Identifies major research gaps and outlines priorities Consensus agreement: 87% for future studies to clarify its clinical relevance and guide evidence‐based practice. Comment: Since it was first described, more than a century ago, several synonyms for fat in the pancreas have been used in the literature , including pancreatic lipomatosis , pancre- quality of evidence was appraised according to the Oxford Center atic steatosis , intrapancreatic fatty infiltration , fatty for Evidence‐Based Medicine system, where the evidence was pancreas , lipomatous pseudohypertrophy of the pancreas graded from 1 to 5, with 1 being the highest and 5 being the lowest , non‐alcoholic fatty pancreas disease , intrapancreatic . The Oxford Center for Evidence‐Based Medicine system fat deposition , ectopic fat in the pancreas , fat deposi- was selected to grade the evidence and support the consensus tion in the pancreas , fat replacement of the pancreas , statements, as it accommodates both empirical data and expert adipose atrophy of the pancreas , pancreatic fat accumula- judgment in areas where high‐quality evidence is limited . In tion , and non‐alcoholic fatty steatopancreatitis . After cases where insufficient evidence was available to support a thorough discussion and consideration, we propose “fatty definitive position, the Oxford level of evidence was designated as pancreas”
