United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: pancreas, fatty, fatty pancreas, pancreatic, fat, evidence, studies, study, consensus, risk, metabolic, pancreatic fat, associated, patients, level


steatopancreatitis . After cases where insufficient evidence was available to support a thorough discussion and consideration, we propose “fatty definitive position, the Oxford level of evidence was designated as pancreas” as the most appropriate and universally acceptable “not applicable” (N/A). In such instances, consensus was based term to describe the condition of fat within the pancreas. While on the panel's collective judgment and the current state of the term “non‐alcoholic fatty pancreas disease” has gained some knowledge, acknowledging gaps in the evidence base. popularity, particularly due to its similarity to “non‐alcoholic fatty liver disease” within the context of metabolic syndrome, it is crucial to emphasize the significant differences between both 2.5 | Delphi Process organs and their respective pathological processes. These dis- tinctions make it inappropriate to directly compare both dis- Questions, statements, and related comments were uploaded to eases or to draw nomenclature inspiration from fatty liver the Delphi online platform at the end of April 2025 and voted on disease. Another argument against the use of “non‐alcoholic in May 2025. All participants were given the opportunity to vote fatty pancreas disease” is that it creates a nomenclature based on and comment on every statement included in the report. on negations, which is generally undesirable in medical termi- Each statement was evaluated using a modified 5‐point Likert nology. The term “non‐alcoholic” is a negative construction, scale , with the following response options: “strongly which adds unnecessary complexity and does not accurately disagree,” “disagree,” “agree,” “strongly agree,” and “not qual- describe the nature of this specific pancreatic condition, which ified to respond.” The inclusion of the “not qualified to respond” is distinct and unrelated to alcohol‐related damage. Further- option was intended to reflect the varied backgrounds of the more, while there is a clear justification for the term “non‐ participants and to ensure that responses were based on areas of alcoholic fatty liver disease” (recently changed to “metabolic individual expertise (such responses were excluded from the dysfunction‐associated steatotic liver disease” ) ‐ due to the final consensus calculations). Participants were encouraged to near‐identical histology observed in both alcoholic and non‐ provide written comments to support their responses or suggest alcoholic liver steatosis; this similarity does not extend to the refinements to the statements. All votes and accompanying pancreas. The etiology and histopathology of fatty pancreas are feedback were reviewed by the coordinating group. A level of described in questions and
