United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: pancreas, fatty, fatty pancreas, pancreatic, fat, evidence, studies, study, consensus, risk, metabolic, pancreatic fat, associated, patients, level


to the statements. All votes and accompanying pancreas. The etiology and histopathology of fatty pancreas are feedback were reviewed by the coordinating group. A level of described in questions and statements 2 and 5 of this consensus agreement, defined as the combined proportion of “agree” and report, and we refer readers to those sections for a more “strongly agree” responses of 80% or higher, was considered to comprehensive understanding of this specific topic. United European Gastroenterology Journal, 2026 3 of 31 2.5.2 | Chapter 2 cellular origin of intrapancreatic adipocytes remains unclear. Hypotheses for this include the transdifferentiation of exocrine infiltration by adipocyte precursors from external sources, such Statement 2: Various factors, including aging, obesity, inflam- as peripancreatic fat . mation from diverse causes, genetic disorders, and chronic obstruction, contribute to a fatty pancreas. Multiple intra‐ and Recent animal studies utilizing high‐fat diet models, experi- extra‐pancreatic cell types seem to have the potential to serve as mental pancreatitis, and various genetic manipulations targeting precursors of intrapancreatic adipocytes. acinar and ductal cells involved in pancreatic morphogenesis have revealed different mechanisms of fatty pancreas alteration Level of evidence: 4. . These findings suggest that multiple cell types may serve as precursors to intrapancreatic adipocytes. Generally, two distinct Consensus agreement: 89% scenarios may underlie the development of a fatty pancreas: one that parallels measures of adiposity , and the other Comment: The etiology of fatty pancreas is multifactorial, resulting from exocrine pancreatic tissue loss . A proposal for involving processes such as aging, inflammation, fibrosis, and as the classification of fatty pancreas by etiology is presented in a consequence of neoplasia . Obesity is also a significant Table 1. contributor to this condition, as excessive systemic lipid levels lead to an increase in both the number and size of adipocytes, which can infiltrate various organs, including the pancreas, potentially replacing normal pancreatic tissue . A 2.5.3 | Chapter 3 correlation with type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM) has been re- ported . In patients with type 2 DM, liver fat export via very Question: What is the role of alcohol consumption and smoking low‐density lipoprotein 1 (VLDL1)‐triglycerides influences in the development and progression of fatty pancreas? pancreatic fat accumulation, a process that seems to be revers- ible upon diabetes remission . Additionally, obstruction of Statement 3: Currently, there is no convincing evidence of an the pancreatic duct (due to conditions such as malignancy or
