United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: pancreas, fatty, fatty pancreas, pancreatic, fat, evidence, studies, study, consensus, risk, metabolic, pancreatic fat, associated, patients, level


2026 observational studies have suggested potential associations. differences based on study settings or sample size. Moreover, However, these findings are often based on heterogeneous or sex, mean age, mean body mass index (BMI), and the percent- cross‐sectional data, and prospective, well‐powered studies are age of patients with DM or fatty liver diseases had no effect on lacking. A cross‐sectional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) heterogeneity . study of 119 individuals after acute pancreatitis found that fatty pancreas was more common in these patients than in healthy An updated systematic review using multiple literature data- controls, regardless of alcohol or smoking . Similarly, in a bases (performed for the purposes of the present consensus cross‐sectional study of 8097 individuals, including 1297 with report) led to the identification of 26 studies reporting on the fatty pancreas and 6800 without, researchers found no significant prevalence of fatty pancreas in the adult population or screened differences in the prevalence of smoking or alcohol consumption subjects free of pancreatic diseases, with a pooled prevalence of between the two groups . Moreover, a five‐year follow‐up 27% (range, 1.2%–70.8%) [15, 25, 47, 49–51, 53–72] (Supporting study of 320 Japanese adults without metabolic syndrome found Information S3: Figures 1–3). Diagnosis of fatty pancreas was that higher pancreatic fat levels were linked to a greater propor- based on transabdominal ultrasound (US), with or without tion of smokers and individuals consuming at least 20 g of alcohol elastography, in 14 studies; MRI in four studies; EUS and per day . A study of 685 healthy volunteers without metabolic computed tomography (CT) in three studies each; and autopsy syndrome used MRI to diagnose fatty pancreas, applying a fat specimens in two older studies. The variability across studies (in content threshold of 10.4%; it found no significant difference in terms of population characteristics, age distribution, and dif- smoking rates between those with and without fatty pancreas ferences in diagnostic methods or criteria) prevents a reliable (8.2% vs. 12.7%). However, current alcohol consumption was estimation of overall prevalence based on specific demographic slightly higher in individuals with fatty pancreas compared to or clinical factors. those without (28.2% vs. 19.5%), showing borderline significance (p = 0.04) . Furthermore, several studies have consistently found no significant association between alcohol consumption or 2.5.5 | Chapter 5 smoking and the presence or progression of fatty pancreas. In a prospective study of 250 patients undergoing endoscopic ultra- Question: What
