United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: pancreas, fatty, fatty pancreas, pancreatic, fat, evidence, studies, study, consensus, risk, metabolic, pancreatic fat, associated, patients, level


association between alcohol consumption or 2.5.5 | Chapter 5 smoking and the presence or progression of fatty pancreas. In a prospective study of 250 patients undergoing endoscopic ultra- Question: What is the histopathology of fatty pancreas? sound (EUS), fatty pancreas was detected in 27.8% of cases, but neither alcohol nor smoking was linked to increased risk . Statement 5.1: The hallmark of fatty pancreas is the presence of Similarly, a large cohort study involving over 9900 individuals adipocytes, intralobularly and/or extralobularly. Extensive found no significant differences in smoking or alcohol use be- adipocyte accumulation is usually associated with loss of acinar tween those with and without fatty pancreas . A retrospective parenchyma. study with a 2‐year follow‐up further supported these findings, showing no association between alcohol or smoking and Level of evidence: 5. pancreatic parenchymal changes in patients with fatty pancreas . Although modification of lifestyle risk factors is a funda- Consensus agreement: 100% mental component in the management of patients with fatty pancreas, no studies to date have systematically evaluated the Statement 5.2: The distribution of fatty pancreas‐related changes potential benefits of reducing or ceasing alcohol consumption may be patchy. and/or smoking as preventive strategies for the onset and pro- gression of fatty pancreas. Level of evidence: 5. Consensus agreement: 100% 2.5.4 | Chapter 4 Statement 5.3: The histology of fatty pancreas beyond the presence Question: What is the epidemiology of fatty pancreas? of adipocytes has been poorly studied. Statement 4: The epidemiology of fatty pancreas is poorly un- Level of evidence: N/A. derstood. Due to the lack of standardized definitions and diag- nostic criteria, prevalence estimates vary widely across studies. Consensus agreement: 100% However, fatty pancreas is more common with increasing age, body mass index, waist circumference, metabolic syndrome, and Statement 5.4: There is currently no universally accepted, vali- diabetes. dated objective method for the histological assessment of the severity of fatty pancreas. Level of evidence: 2. Level of evidence: N/A. Consensus agreement: 99% Consensus agreement: 100% Comment: A recent systematic review and meta‐analysis of the pancreas reported an overall prevalence of 21%, with significant pancreas is the hallmark of fatty pancreas. In this context, the differences across countries, geographical regions, and varia- adipocytes are morphologically mature and contain a single, tions according to diagnostic modality, but no significant large lipid vacuole (Figure 1). They may be located within United European Gastroenterology Journal, 2026 5 of 31 pancreatic
