United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: pancreas, fatty, fatty pancreas, pancreatic, fat, evidence, studies, study, consensus, risk, metabolic, pancreatic fat, associated, patients, level


contain a single, tions according to diagnostic modality, but no significant large lipid vacuole (Figure 1). They may be located within United European Gastroenterology Journal, 2026 5 of 31 pancreatic lobules (intralobular) and/or interlobular spaces ultimately resulting in vast stretches of adipose tissue con- (extralobular) (Figure 2), and in exceptional instances, inside taining scattered islets, ducts, or sparse clusters of residual acinar islets of Langerhans (Figure 3). In contrast to hepatic stea- cells (Figure S5). Macroscopically, when changes are advanced, tosis, intracytoplasmic lipid vacuoles in acinar cells are not the pancreas may exhibit a marbled appearance and a markedly readily seen upon hematoxylin and eosin staining. Histo- soft texture . According to autopsy studies, the distribution of chemical, immunohistochemical, and ultrastructural exami- fatty pancreas‐related changes may be patchy (Figure S6), nations have revealed acinar intracytoplasmic lipid a finding supported by imaging studies . More recent histo- accumulation in rodent models of fatty pancreas [37, 73–76]. logical studies are primarily based on the examination of surgical While this phenomenon has been less documented in human specimens, which precludes the assessment of the distribution of pancreas , a recent study indicates that intracellular lipid fatty pancreas‐related changes. However, the frequent involve- accumulation in human pancreas may be seen in both acinar ment of superficial lobules, that is, lobules at the interface with cells and endocrine cells of Langerhans islets . The the peripancreatic tissues, has been described . number of adipocytes may vary from a few scattered fat cells to confluent sheets (Figure S4). Extensive adipocyte accumu- The histology of fatty pancreas beyond the presence of adipocytes lation is usually associated with loss of acinar parenchyma, has been poorly studied. While inflammatory changes and fibrosis are not usually conspicuous in and around the adipocytes and the neighboring parenchyma, these changes have not been systematically characterized. Currently, there is only sparse published evidence from a small number of human and animal studies [82–84]. Nonetheless, current published evidence does not suggest that increasing adipocyte accumulation is associated with inflammation and fibrosis. Hence, a sequence similar to that seen in the liver, that is, steatosis progressing to steatohepatitis, is not generally observed in the pancreas. Furthermore, data and insight are lacking regarding possible variations in histo- morphological features with respect to the underlying cause of fatty pancreas. There is also currently no universally accepted, validated objective method for the histological assessment of the severity of
