United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: pancreas, fatty, fatty pancreas, pancreatic, fat, evidence, studies, study, consensus, risk, metabolic, pancreatic fat, associated, patients, level


histo- morphological features with respect to the underlying cause of fatty pancreas. There is also currently no universally accepted, validated objective method for the histological assessment of the severity of fatty pancreas. Proposed grading systems vary from subjective manual semiquantification (based on visual inspec- tion) , to the percentage of pancreatic tissue area occupied by adipocytes [86–88], or the number of adipocytes per microscopy field , to automated morphometric analysis of images or digital sections [90–93]. Intra‐ and extralobular fat is assessed FIGURE 1 | Mature adipocytes (black asterisks) around and within separately; however, distinction may be impossible in advanced parenchymal lobules (white asterisks). Note the absence of lipid fatty pancreas. As the amount of peripancreatic fat contained in a vacuoles in acinar cells. specimen may depend on the surgical procedure, it is excluded FIGURE 2 | The degree of fatty pancreas‐related changes (arrows, asterisks) may range from discrete (a) to moderate (b) and severe (c). 6 of 31 United European Gastroenterology Journal, 2026 FIGURE 3 | Non‐uniform distribution of fatty pancreas‐related changes resulting in mild alteration in some lobules (left) and advanced changes in flanking parenchyma (right). from the assessment. A line connecting the most peripheral Level of evidence: 3. (remnants of) acinar cells and/or islets defines the border between extralobular and peripancreatic fat (Figure S7). Because peri- Consensus agreement: 87% pancreatic fat is typically absent at the pancreatic neck, tissue samples from this location are commonly analyzed . Comment: Transabdominal US is one of the most common Given the potential non‐uniform distribution of fatty pancreas‐ imaging modalities for evaluating abdominal organs. Increased related changes, various recommendations have been made echogenicity can indicate the presence of fat in the pancreas regarding the number of tissue blocks to be examined; however, (Figure 4). However, echogenicity can be affected by other none of these have been validated. A systematic assessment of the pathological processes, including fibrosis, inflammation, and degree of heterogeneity may provide valuable information about calcification . Moreover, the retroperitoneal location of the the minimum number of tissue blocks needed for the reproduc- pancreas poses a limitation for its evaluation, especially in in- ibility of findings . While the scoring of fatty pancreas‐related dividuals with obesity; evaluating the whole organ can be changes is currently not part of routine diagnostic procedures, difficult and may result in significant interobserver variation. evaluation of the presence of adipocytes at the transection margin Echogenicity
