United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: pancreas, fatty, fatty pancreas, pancreatic, fat, evidence, studies, study, consensus, risk, metabolic, pancreatic fat, associated, patients, level


can be changes is currently not part of routine diagnostic procedures, difficult and may result in significant interobserver variation. evaluation of the presence of adipocytes at the transection margin Echogenicity depends on the body habitus of the patient, as well may be considered, given its correlation with the risk for post- as the frequency of the transducer, B‐mode gain presets, and the operative pancreatic fistula . angle of insonation. Comparisons of pancreatic echogenicity with other organs, such as the liver, spleen, kidney, and retro- As only a small number of studies have systematically analyzed peritoneal fat, have been proposed; however, they lack valida- the histology of human fatty pancreas, insight is currently limited. tion and consistent application . Moreover, no With surgical specimens accounting for most of the study mate- established validated quantitative criteria exist; however, most rial available, potential interference by pancreatic disease that semi‐quantitative methods have four grades (non, mild, mod- necessitates resection represents a significant limitation, even if erate, or severe). Therefore, a cautious approach is advisable tissue samples are taken from upstream or at least 1 cm away from when comparing the data, given the possibility of methodolog- the tumor . Due to the dearth of evidence and, conse- ical variations. A four‐tier grading system for fatty pancreas quently, the lack of consensus regarding the histomorphological based on echogenicity relative to surrounding organs has been features and diagnostic criteria of fatty pancreas, currently proposed . However, if the reference organ (e.g., liver) is available study findings are difficult to compare. itself steatotic, this comparison becomes unreliable. Further- more, this grading system was not compared to other imaging modalities; therefore, the sensitivity for severity grading and 2.5.6 | Chapter 6 detecting mild fatty pancreas could be questionable. Question: How should fatty pancreas be diagnosed from a Statement 6.2: CT could assist in the diagnosis of fatty pancreas, radiological standpoint? particularly in advanced cases, but its sensitivity is limited for detecting milder forms. The presence and severity of fatty pancreas can be evaluated using various imaging modalities in both clinical practice and Level of evidence: 5. research, including transabdominal US, CT, and MRI. Consensus agreement: 97% Statement 6.1: Transabdominal ultrasonography could suggest the presence of fatty pancreas; however, its diagnostic reliability Comment: CT is a cross‐sectional imaging modality for whole and utility for assessing severity remain limited due to operator organ evaluation of the pancreas, showing decreased attenua-
