United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: pancreas, fatty, fatty pancreas, pancreatic, fat, evidence, studies, study, consensus, risk, metabolic, pancreatic fat, associated, patients, level


its diagnostic reliability Comment: CT is a cross‐sectional imaging modality for whole and utility for assessing severity remain limited due to operator organ evaluation of the pancreas, showing decreased attenua- dependency, technical variability, and inconsistent criteria. tion values in cases of fatty pancreas (Figure 5). Measuring United European Gastroenterology Journal, 2026 7 of 31 FIGURE 4 | Transabdominal ultrasonography image (a) of a patient with fatty pancreas showing increased echogenicity, which was confirmed via magnetic resonance imaging‐proton density fat fraction (b). Level of evidence: 3. Consensus agreement: 100% Comment: MRI is the preferred choice of imaging for the quantitative assessment of pancreatic fat, even though it is costly and often has limited availability. The principle of MRI in detecting and quantifying fat mainly depends on the chemical shift effect, which can be defined as the difference in resonance frequencies between hydrogen protons bound to triglycerides and water . Chemical shift imaging, Dixon MRI‐PDFF, and MR spectroscopy (MRS) are the best options for both detecting and quantifying fatty pancreas. In‐phase and opposed‐phase imaging exploits the time‐of‐echo‐dependent phase interfer- ence effect between gradient echo signals of water and fat. However, it has some disadvantages, as it only evaluates the main fat peak in the tissue, and is also subject to biases from T1 and T2* relaxation. MRS is another method that can also mea- FIGURE 5 | Diffuse fatty pancreas on computed tomography is more sure the fat fraction of the pancreas; however, it has some evident in the tail and the body than in the head. technical challenges, including limited voxel size, which can be a problem in heterogeneous fat infiltration. the Hounsfield unit (HU) of the tissue of interest has the po- tential to quantitatively grade the degree of fatty pancreas. Due to the technical limitations of the in‐phase and opposed‐ However, attenuation values may differ between various CT phase methods and MRS, MRI‐PDFF is recognized as the scanners, depending on the scan parameters and contrast most reliable method for quantifying pancreatic fat, as it enables dosing, which can reduce the reproducibility of the technique. the evaluation of the entire pancreas with shorter scan times, as Moreover, a mild degree of fat can cause a hypodense appear- opposed to a voxel‐limited technique like MRS. The histological ance on CT (the so‐called “invisible fat” on CT), which is not pancreatic fat fraction is highly correlated with MRI‐PDFF [92, enough to confidently
