United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: pancreas, fatty, fatty pancreas, pancreatic, fat, evidence, studies, study, consensus, risk, metabolic, pancreatic fat, associated, patients, level


voxel‐limited technique like MRS. The histological ance on CT (the so‐called “invisible fat” on CT), which is not pancreatic fat fraction is highly correlated with MRI‐PDFF [92, enough to confidently diagnose the presence of fat . Ra- 109]. Commonly, measurement of the averages of three regions diation exposure is another limitation of the technique. The of interest (ROIs) of the head, body, and tail of the pancreas difference in attenuation between the spleen (in the absence of should be conducted with due care to avoid non‐parenchymal splenic pathology) and pancreas, as well as the ratio of these structures, such as ducts and vessels (Figure 6). Because of values on non‐enhanced CT, has been shown to be accurate for significant variations in organ volume and on the evaluating fatty pancreas in comparison with histopathological principle that smaller ROIs are more susceptible to noise, analyses . A pancreas‐to‐spleen density ratio of < 0.7 is maximally sized ROIs are advisable for measurement. Pancre- proposed to be a diagnostic criterion for the presence of fatty atic organ margins can become physiologically and pathologi- pancreas . Additionally, the combination of pancreatic cally indistinct over time due to senile and pathological changes. surface lobularity and pancreatic attenuation on CT has Different MRI studies evaluating the fat distribution between demonstrated good accuracy for detecting fatty pancreas . pancreatic regions have demonstrated conflicting results. The most comprehensive study revealed an unequal distribution of Statement 6.3: MRI, particularly the use of proton density fat pancreatic fat in 1367 volunteers, with pancreatic fat fractions of fraction (PDFF) sequences, is the most reliable technique for ac- 4.6% in the head, 4.9% in the body, and 3.9% in the tail curate pancreatic fat quantification. (p < 0.001) which can be a result of confounding factors 8 of 31 United European Gastroenterology Journal, 2026 like BMI, age, and sex . Other studies with a limited focal fatty pancreas that is not located in a characteristic area of number of patients did not demonstrate such differences [68, 80, the pancreas on ultrasonography and CT. 115]. A cutoff for pancreatic steatosis of 6.2% on MRI was suggested . Level of evidence: 5. pancreas can be classified into three grades: mild fatty pancreas (6%–15% PDFF), moderate fatty pancreas (16%–30% PDFF), and Comment: In cases where the findings on CT or US are uncer- severe fatty pancreas (over 30% PDFF) (Figure 7). tain or suggestive of potential
