United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: pancreas, fatty, fatty pancreas, pancreatic, fat, evidence, studies, study, consensus, risk, metabolic, pancreatic fat, associated, patients, level


fatty pancreas (16%–30% PDFF), and Comment: In cases where the findings on CT or US are uncer- severe fatty pancreas (over 30% PDFF) (Figure 7). tain or suggestive of potential serious focal pathology, pancre- atic MRI may be helpful. Fatty pancreas can be heterogeneous Statement 6.4: MRI could be used for further characterization of and may mimic focal lesions (Figures S8 and S9). This pancreatic fat in patients with uncertain findings and suspected heterogeneous appearance can be further characterized by MRI FIGURE 6 | Fat fraction quantification with magnetic resonance imaging‐proton density fat fraction. It is both feasible to quantify pancreatic fat with three regions of interest (ROIs) placed on the pancreatic head, body, and tail to report the average (a) and to measure the entire pancreas using free‐hand ROIs (b). FIGURE 7 | Three patients with varying grades of fatty pancreas, as assessed via transabdominal ultrasound and corresponding magnetic resonance imaging‐proton density fat fraction (MRI‐PDFF). Mild fatty pancreas with 7% pancreatic fat on MRI‐PDFF (a), moderate fatty pancreas with 20% pancreatic fat on MRI‐PDFF (b), and severe fatty pancreas with 35% pancreatic fat on MRI‐PDFF (c). United European Gastroenterology Journal, 2026 9 of 31 with demonstration of a relatively high fat fraction in this re- hyperechogenicity and histological fat accumulation is not gion. Focal fatty replacement of the pancreas may occur due to established, and tissue acquisition cannot be recommended. intraductal calculi or tumors that obstruct the pancreatic duct (Figure S10). Lipomatous pseudohypertrophy is character- Level of evidence: 4. ized by an expansion of the pancreas in contrast to fatty infil- tration or atrophy of parenchyma (Figure S11). While the Consensus agreement: 97% pathological consensus is that lipomatous pseudohypertrophy represents an extreme form of fatty pancreas, the term persists in Comment: Fatty pancreas can be detected via EUS as hyper- clinical radiology to describe a morphologically distinct variant echogenicity (increased echogenicity) when compared to other characterized by expansion of the gland, differentiating it from organs, that is, the spleen, which is less affected by fatty infil- simple fatty pancreas or atrophy of the pancreatic parenchyma. tration . This is related to the fact that fat accu- Distal pancreatic agenesis is another entity that should be mulation can increase the reflection of sound waves, making the differentiated from distal fatty pancreas. In the absence of the pancreas appear brighter on the EUS view . Nonetheless, distal pancreas, the distal pancreatic
