United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: pancreas, fatty, fatty pancreas, pancreatic, fat, evidence, studies, study, consensus, risk, metabolic, pancreatic fat, associated, patients, level


reflection of sound waves, making the differentiated from distal fatty pancreas. In the absence of the pancreas appear brighter on the EUS view . Nonetheless, distal pancreas, the distal pancreatic bed may be occupied by the echogenicity can be affected by other pathological processes, stomach or intestine (referred to as dependent stomach or depending on the patient's body habitus and machine settings, dependent intestine signs), which are adjacent to the splenic vein such as the frequency, gain, and angle of insonation. Further- (Figure S12). Beyond that, some pancreatic lesions may more, interobserver reproducibility has not been addressed, and contain fat (e.g., lipoma and pancreatoblastoma) and should be the technique itself cannot currently be recommended for evaluated comprehensively for a possible solid component investigating fatty pancreas due to its cost and invasiveness. (Figure S13). Specific genetic disorders may also cause fatty Only one preliminary study has investigated fatty pancreas with pancreas, including cystic fibrosis, Shwachman–Diamond syn- EUS‐guided tissue acquisition . Nonetheless, EUS‐guided drome, and Johanson–Blizzard syndrome, the most well‐known tissue acquisition carries significant risks and is generally of which is cystic fibrosis (Figure S14). Indeed, further limited to differentiating malignant from benign pancreatic le- Statement 6.5: Automated artificial intelligence (AI)‐based mea- Question: How is fatty pancreas graded using EUS? surement of pancreatic fat via MRI may enable objective, repro- ducible quantification, benefiting time management and large‐ Statement 7.2: To date, no validated EUS classification to grade scale research studies. However, there is currently a lack of suffi- the severity or the extent of fatty pancreas disease is available. cient evidence on this subject. Level of evidence: 4. Level of evidence: 4. Consensus agreement: 97% Consensus agreement: 100% Comment: Currently, there is no universally accepted or vali- Comment: Automated AI‐based measurement of pancreatic fat dated objective method for the histological assessment of fatty with MRI offers a promising advancement in the objective and pancreas, making it difficult to establish a definitive classifica- reproducible quantification of pancreatic fat. A recently pub- tion for grading its severity or extent using EUS. However, the lished study demonstrated that a deep learning radiomics model current consensus panel considers this an important area for outperformed radiologists in providing a more efficient, accu- future research, as the evaluation of pancreatic fatty change is rate, and stable method for monitoring fatty pancreas . often subjective and can vary based on the endosonographer's Another study showed that 3D dual‐contrast nnU‐Net
