United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: pancreas, fatty, fatty pancreas, pancreatic, fat, evidence, studies, study, consensus, risk, metabolic, pancreatic fat, associated, patients, level


of pancreatic fatty change is rate, and stable method for monitoring fatty pancreas . often subjective and can vary based on the endosonographer's Another study showed that 3D dual‐contrast nnU‐Net seg- experience and interpretation. Several attempts to classify fatty mentation of the pancreas on Dixon images fully automated the pancreas based on EUS have been proposed . assessment of pancreatic fat distribution with high reliability In order to facilitate the development of consistent and com- . Moreover, the application of adapted deep convolutional parable studies, we propose a preliminary classification system neural networks for automatic measurement has shown po- for fatty pancreas based on EUS findings (Table 2 and assessments across diverse populations . The use of a standardized EUS protocol in terms of machine settings should aim to enhance reproducibility in clinical studies. However, conventional EUS has limitations in quanti- 2.5.7 | Chapter 7 fying fat content, as it is mostly a qualitative evaluation rather than a quantitative one. To minimize subjectivity and improve Question: How can fatty pancreas be diagnosed using EUS? reliability, standardized quantitative assessments using ROI measurements of pancreatic echogenicity, compared to refer- Statement 7.1: EUS can be used to diagnose fatty pancreas pri- ence organs such as the spleen or kidney, are recommended. marily through qualitative echogenicity assessment, typically This approach calculates the average echogenicity ratio, characterized by hyperechoic pancreatic parenchyma compared to enhancing reproducibility and diagnostic accuracy . the spleen or adjacent organs. Nonetheless, a correlation between Furthermore, it should be noted that reduced focal fat content 10 of 31 United European Gastroenterology Journal, 2026 TABLE 2 | Proposal for the classification system for fatty pancreas based on endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) findings. Extent of fatty pancreas No fatty pancreas No evidence of fatty pancreas. Segmental fatty pancreas—head Fatty pancreas limited to the head of the pancreas; the body and tail are spared. Segmental fatty pancreas—body and tail Fatty pancreas involving the body and tail; the head is spared. Diffuse fatty pancreas Fatty pancreas involving the entire pancreas. Severity of fatty pancreas No fatty pancreas No hyperechogenicity or loss of surrounding structure definition. Mild/moderate fatty pancreas Hyperechoic pancreas with mild posterior acoustic attenuation; partial obscuration of anatomical landmarks (e.g., left kidney or spleen for body and tail of the pancreas, mesenteric vessels or distal duodenal wall for head of the pancreas); main pancreatic duct (MPD) mildly or moderately obscured. Severe fatty pancreas Markedly hyperechoic pancreas
