United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: pancreas, fatty, fatty pancreas, pancreatic, fat, evidence, studies, study, consensus, risk, metabolic, pancreatic fat, associated, patients, level


and tail of the pancreas, mesenteric vessels or distal duodenal wall for head of the pancreas); main pancreatic duct (MPD) mildly or moderately obscured. Severe fatty pancreas Markedly hyperechoic pancreas with complete loss of adjacent structure definition; MPD severely obscured, suggesting extensive fat infiltration and shadowing. in the embryological ventral region is a physiological finding. subsequent study, a significant poor‐moderate correlation be- Moreover, some parts of the pancreas can be spared from fat tween median EUS‐SWE Versus values and pancreatic fat accumulation and look hypoechoic compared to the rest of the fraction assessed via MRI was observed (Pearson correlation parenchyma, resembling a nodule or a tumor, which is a false coefficient 0.42; p = 0.025) . positive finding. The integration of AI, particularly computer‐aided detection Question: Can advanced imaging techniques applied in EUS be (CADe) systems, automates the evaluation of pancreatic of use in fatty pancreas evaluation? echogenicity, thus reducing interobserver variability and operator dependency. A recent study demonstrated that an AI Statement 7.3: EUS imaging analysis via AI and advanced im- model accurately detected and segmented abnormal pancreatic aging techniques, such as shear wave elastography (SWE), show tissue in patients with fatty pancreas, achieving an overall promising potential for evaluating fatty pancreas. However, no accuracy of 0.93 (95% CI, 0.90–0.97) and an area under the validation on the application of these techniques has been receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.89 (95% CI, performed. 0.85–0.93) . Level of evidence: 4. 2.5.8 | Chapter 8 Consensus agreement: 95% Question: Is fatty pancreas a risk factor for acute pancreatitis? Comment: Conventional EUS evaluation of fatty pancreas relies heavily on subjective qualitative judgments of tissue echoge- Statement 8.1: Fatty pancreas may be a risk factor for acute nicity, which are operator‐dependent and prone to variability. pancreatitis. The integration of quantitative methods, such as elastography and AI, may offer measurable parameters, thereby significantly Level of evidence: 3. improving diagnostic accuracy. Recent studies suggest that these methods can effectively distinguish normal tissue from Consensus agreement: 88% fatty pancreas, offering more objective assessments than tradi- tional qualitative approaches. Comment: Data from cross‐sectional studies indicate that pa- tients with acute pancreatitis (AP) are more likely to have a fatty SWE quantifies tissue stiffness by assessing the velocity of shear pancreas compared to individuals without AP . wave propagation through pancreatic tissue. Preliminary results While several risk factors can lead to the of a recent study have suggested
