United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: pancreas, fatty, fatty pancreas, pancreatic, fat, evidence, studies, study, consensus, risk, metabolic, pancreatic fat, associated, patients, level


of shear pancreas compared to individuals without AP . wave propagation through pancreatic tissue. Preliminary results While several risk factors can lead to the of a recent study have suggested its feasibility and reproduc- development of both fatty pancreas and AP, a retrospective ibility, associating higher stiffness measurements with increased cohort study of UK Biobank participants showed that fatty pancreatic fat infiltration . Specifically, median EUS‐SWE pancreas was associated with a higher risk of AP compared to Versus and elasticity values were significantly elevated in pa- patients without fatty pancreas. A cohort study linked fatty tients with fatty pancreas compared to those without. Further- pancreas to a higher risk of exocrine pancreatic disorders . more, SWE Versus measurements independently predicted fatty Moreover, a large study using Mendelian randomization sug- pancreas even after adjustments for confounding factors like gested an association between genetically predicted fatty BMI, age, gender, race, alcohol use, and smoking history. In a pancreas and AP . Additionally, fatty pancreas was United European Gastroenterology Journal, 2026 11 of 31 associated with post‐endoscopic retrograde chol- A systematic review of studies on fatty pancreas reported an angiopancreatography (ERCP) pancreatitis . inverse correlation between the amount of pancreatic fat and However, two retrospective cohort studies investigating AP after FE‐1 test results . A similar inverse correlation between pancreatoduodenectomy did not observe increased adjusted pancreatic secretion and the amount of pancreatic fat has been odds of AP associated with fatty pancreas . reported in a more recently published German study of 1458 healthy volunteers and a recent Turkish nationwide Statement 8.2: Fatty pancreas may be associated with increased multicenter study . However, the prevalence of abnormally severity of AP. low FE‐1 concentrations (< 200 μg/g) was similar in patients with and without fatty pancreas . Finally, in a recent Indian Level of evidence: 4. study, all patients with chronic pancreatitis (n = 8) and what the authors called “total pancreatic lipomatosis” had low FE‐1 test Consensus agreement: 92% results . In patients with cystic fibrosis, a clear correlation between fat content and PEI has been described . These Comment: Many studies have reported a positive correlation findings highlight the importance of understanding the causes between fatty pancreas and AP severity [41, 133, 143–145]. One of fatty pancreas in relation to pancreatic function. In summary, study reported higher systemic inflammatory response scores the evidence on the association between fatty pancreas and during the
