United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: pancreas, fatty, fatty pancreas, pancreatic, fat, evidence, studies, study, consensus, risk, metabolic, pancreatic fat, associated, patients, level


143–145]. One of fatty pancreas in relation to pancreatic function. In summary, study reported higher systemic inflammatory response scores the evidence on the association between fatty pancreas and during the first 48 h after admission in AP patients with fatty pancreatic function is inconclusive and should be considered in pancreas compared to those without fatty pancreas, but found the context of the underlying pancreatic disease. ERCP pancreatitis, there does not appear to be a link between in individuals with a fatty pancreas? fatty pancreas and the severity of AP . Regarding AP due to other etiologies, the available data are scarce—two Statement 9.2: Despite the evidence being limited at present, studies specifically reported on acute biliary pancreatitis and genome‐wide association studies and cohort studies suggest that a suggested a positive correlation between fatty pancreas and AP fatty pancreas is associated with the risk of chronic pancreatitis. severity . Level of evidence: 4. 2.5.9 | Chapter 9 Consensus agreement: 94% Question: Is there an increased risk of pancreatic exocrine Comment: In a recent retrospective matched cohort study, pa- insufficiency or reduced exocrine pancreatic secretion in in- tients with fatty pancreas exhibited a significantly higher inci- dividuals with fatty pancreas? dence of CP compared with matched controls (6.1% vs 0.6%) over a mean follow‐up period of 4 years . According to a further Statement 9.1: The evidence regarding the association between study, features of CP were found in all eight patients with severe fatty pancreas and pancreatic exocrine function is inconclusive fatty pancreas, 87% of whom had ductal dilatation and calcifica- and may be influenced by underlying pancreatic disease. tions, and 62% had metabolic syndrome . However, there may be a reverse causation bias as CP‐induced pancreatic atrophy Level of evidence: 4. may lead to fatty pancreas. In a Turkish nationwide multicenter study of 1700 volunteers, transabdominal ultrasonography for Consensus agreement: 92% fatty pancreas and ultrasonographic SWE for pancreatic stiffness were performed . Fatty pancreas was associated with Comment: According to the European guidelines for the diag- increased pancreatic stiffness, which may be a sign of pancreatic nosis and treatment of pancreatic exocrine insufficiency (PEI), fibrosis ; however, pancreatic stiffness alone is insufficient to PEI is defined as a reduction in exocrine pancreatic secretion diagnose CP. Recently, a study using genetic variants from and/or intraluminal activity of pancreatic enzymes below the genome‐wide association studies of fatty pancreas showed that level that allows
