United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: pancreas, fatty, fatty pancreas, pancreatic, fat, evidence, studies, study, consensus, risk, metabolic, pancreatic fat, associated, patients, level


pancreatic secretion diagnose CP. Recently, a study using genetic variants from and/or intraluminal activity of pancreatic enzymes below the genome‐wide association studies of fatty pancreas showed that level that allows the normal digestion of nutrients . Only one genetically predicted fatty pancreas was significantly associated small study has reported on the digestive capacity of the with AP and CP . This finding supports a potential causal pancreas in patients with fatty pancreas using the combined role of fatty pancreas in pancreatitis but causality should be 13 C‐mixed triglyceride (MTG) breath test and dietary assessment proven via prospective cohort studies. . This study reported normal breath test results and the absence of nutritional deficiencies in all cases, indicating that PEI is not present in patients with fatty pancreas. This is sup- 2.5.10 | Chapter 10 ported by a study reporting that the level of pancreatic fat is not associated with the digestive capacity of the pancreas as assessed Question: Is there a correlation between fatty pancreas and the using the N‐benzoyl‐L‐tyros‐p‐aminobenzoic acid test . In a prevalence of intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms (IPMN)? study of 49 insulin‐naïve patients with type 2 DM, pancreatic fat content (as measured using MRI) was not associated with Statement 10.1: Low‐quality evidence indicates that the prevalence reduced pancreatic function [as determined by fecal elastase‐1 of fatty pancreas may be higher in patients with IPMN than in (FE‐1), fecal chymotrypsin, and 13 C‐MTG breath tests] . patients without IPMN. 12 of 31 United European Gastroenterology Journal, 2026 Level of evidence: 4. The method of evaluating fatty pancreas varied greatly across studies. Furthermore, many published reports have focused on Consensus agreement: 94% selected cases of resected IPMN lesions only, introducing a se- lection bias . Overall, the level of evidence is very low Comment: The prevalence of fatty pancreas among patients with and insufficient to draw a definitive conclusion regarding IPMN varies widely across reporting studies, ranging from 47% to whether fatty pancreas increases the risk of IPMN progression, 88% . One retrospective study with a relatively large and if this concerns causality rather than correlation. Currently, sample size reported a higher prevalence of fatty pancreas in there is also insufficient evidence to support tailoring IPMN patients with IPMN (60%) compared to those without (39%) . follow‐up strategies based on fatty pancreas. Additionally, some retrospective studies have found that pancreatic fat content is higher in patients with IPMN
