United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: pancreas, fatty, fatty pancreas, pancreatic, fat, evidence, studies, study, consensus, risk, metabolic, pancreatic fat, associated, patients, level


IPMN (60%) compared to those without (39%) . follow‐up strategies based on fatty pancreas. Additionally, some retrospective studies have found that pancreatic fat content is higher in patients with IPMN than in those without . However, one study indicated that this 2.5.11 | Chapter 11 difference was significant only when comparing malignant IPMN cases to benign IPMN or non‐IPMN cases, as they found no sig- Question: Is fatty pancreas a risk factor for pancreatic cancer? nificant difference between benign IPMN and non‐IPMN cases . A Japanese retrospective matched cohort study that eval- Statement 11.1: Fatty pancreas is associated with pancreatic uated the association between IPMN and fatty pancreas in pa- cancer. While direct causality and the exact mechanisms remain tients undergoing MRI and CT scans for various indications also under investigation, a growing body of evidence suggests that reported that the CT attenuation indices in each of the evaluated patients with fatty pancreas are at an increased risk of developing pancreatic regions (head/body/tail) were lower in patients with pancreatic cancer. IPMN than in patients without pancreatic cysts . In terms of IPMN subtype, a cross‐sectional study evaluating the associations Level of evidence: 3. between pancreato‐hepato‐biliary disorders and fatty pancreas, diagnosed via EUS, revealed that main‐duct IPMN, but not mixed‐ Consensus agreement: 99% type or branch‐duct IPMN, was significantly associated with fatty pancreas . These findings should be interpreted with caution Comment: Several studies have explored the relationship be- for two reasons. First, fatty replacement impacts the background tween fatty pancreas and pancreatic cancer (PC). Although attenuation on imaging, potentially leading to a higher sensitivity much of the existing research is based on small cohort studies for cystic lesions. This detection bias may have resulted in a higher and retrospective analyses, three systematic reviews have syn- prevalence. Second, due to the retrospective design of the avail- thesized these findings. A systematic review found that able studies, it is not possible to determine whether the observed fatty pancreas significantly increased the risk of PC or pre‐ association between the two entities reflects causation or malignant lesions (relative risk, 2.78; 95% confidence interval, correlation. [CI], 1.56–4.94; p < 0.001). Another article reported that the likelihood of fatty pancreas among patients with PC was Question: Does fatty pancreas increase the risk of progression in more than six times higher (odds ratio [OR], 6.13; 95% CI, IPMN? 2.61–14.42). A recent meta‐analysis estimated a pooled OR
