United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: pancreas, fatty, fatty pancreas, pancreatic, fat, evidence, studies, study, consensus, risk, metabolic, pancreatic fat, associated, patients, level


Question: Does fatty pancreas increase the risk of progression in more than six times higher (odds ratio [OR], 6.13; 95% CI, IPMN? 2.61–14.42). A recent meta‐analysis estimated a pooled OR of 3.23 (95% CI, 1.86–5.60) for fatty pancreas in patients with PC Statement 10.2: While fatty pancreas may be associated with an compared to controls. These reviews suggest that individuals increased risk of IPMN progression, there is insufficient evidence with fatty pancreas face a notably higher risk of developing PC for a definite conclusion or establishment of a causal relationship. than those without. Further supporting evidence comes from a large‐scale prospective cohort study using UK Biobank data Level of evidence: 4. . This study found that fatty pancreas was associated with an increased hazard ratio (HR) of 1.976 (95% CI, 1.054–3.704), Consensus agreement: 88% strengthening the argument that fatty pancreas may be an in- dependent risk factor for PC. Another study adds to the Comment: Although limited, the available data suggest that in growing literature linking fatty pancreas to PC, emphasizing the patients with IPMN, pancreatic fat content is higher in malig- need to investigate the biological mechanisms underlying this nant or high‐grade dysplastic lesions compared to low‐risk association. Nonetheless, despite these findings, the causal IPMN [155–158]. Additionally, pancreatic fat content relationship between fatty pancreas and PC remains uncertain. appeared to increase over time when IPMN progressed to ma- Most studies establish correlation rather than direct causation. lignancy, while remaining stable in cases without IPMN pro- However, a recent Mendelian randomization study provides gression . This is in line with studies reporting an compelling evidence suggesting a potential causal link. By association between metabolic syndrome and obesity and an leveraging genetic variants as instrumental variables, this study increased risk of IPMN progression . Regarding specific minimized confounding factors inherent in observational worrisome features and high‐risk stigmata associated with research, further supporting the hypothesis that fatty pancreas IPMN, a retrospective, single‐center study identified a correla- may contribute to PC development. Several studies have explored tion between fatty pancreas and main pancreatic duct diameter, the mechanistic links between fatty pancreas and PC. Proposed cyst diameter, mural nodule size, and CA19‐9 serum pathophysiological mechanisms include lipotoxicity, chronic levels . inflammation, oxidative stress, altered metabolic signaling, United European Gastroenterology Journal, 2026 13 of 31 dysregulated autophagy, immune modulation, and activation of Statement 13.1: The prevalence of fatty pancreas is increased in cellular processes such
