United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: pancreas, fatty, fatty pancreas, pancreatic, fat, evidence, studies, study, consensus, risk, metabolic, pancreatic fat, associated, patients, level


metabolic signaling, United European Gastroenterology Journal, 2026 13 of 31 dysregulated autophagy, immune modulation, and activation of Statement 13.1: The prevalence of fatty pancreas is increased in cellular processes such as pancreatic stellate cell activation fol- children with obesity, type 2 DM, metabolic dysfunction‐associated lowed by fibrosis. Collectively, these factors may contribute to a steatotic liver disease (MASLD), as well as in children with cystic tumor‐promoting microenvironment that facilitates cancer fibrosis, Shwachman–Diamond syndrome, or Pearson syndrome. development, progression, and metastasis [164–166]. Level of evidence: 3. Consensus agreement: 98% 2.5.12 | Chapter 12 Comment: Fatty pancreas has been described in children in two Question: Is fatty pancreas a risk factor for surgical distinct settings. First, in association with several congenital complications? studies have shown that the extent of fatty pancreas was Statement 12.1: A fatty pancreas increases the risk of surgical correlated to a decline in exocrine function . This corre- complications. lation has also been shown in animal models of Shwachman‐ Diamond syndrome . Clinical and translational research Level of evidence: 3. is needed to further investigate the pathophysiology and impact on exocrine function. Second, fatty pancreas has been reported Consensus agreement: 98% in children with overweight or type 2 DM. Studies have high- lighted varying prevalence rates of fatty pancreas in pediatric Comment: The presence of excessive fat around or within the populations. In a cohort of Chilean adolescents aged pancreas is associated with an increased risk of adverse post- 13–18 years, 4% exhibited ultrasonographic signs of fatty operative events following pancreatoduodenectomy (PD) . A pancreas . A South Korean study found 26.5% of children fatty pancreas may elevate the risk of surgical complications in aged 5–18 years had an echogenic pancreas on abdominal ul- three ways: by making surgical tissue handling more challenging, trasound . In an American pediatric tertiary care center, by promoting inflammation, and, indirectly, by increasing the 11.5% of children aged 2–18 years showed signs of fatty pancreas risk of diabetes. Fat accumulation around or within the pancreas on CT scans performed in emergency or inpatient settings . can complicate surgical procedures and impair healing, contrib- Higher prevalence rates were observed in at‐risk populations. uting to a higher incidence of severe complications such as Among obese adolescents with MASLD, the prevalence of fatty postoperative pancreatic fistula (POPF) [89, 98, 168–171]. In pa- pancreas was 74.5% in a South Korean study, 52% in an Italian tients
