United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: pancreas, fatty, fatty pancreas, pancreatic, fat, evidence, studies, study, consensus, risk, metabolic, pancreatic fat, associated, patients, level


obese adolescents with MASLD, the prevalence of fatty postoperative pancreatic fistula (POPF) [89, 98, 168–171]. In pa- pancreas was 74.5% in a South Korean study, 52% in an Italian tients with elevated BMI, fat accumulation in the tissues sur- study , and 50% in a Hong Kong cohort using MRI to rounding the pancreas may impede the healing of the pancreatic assess pancreas fat fraction. Additionally, the prevalence of fatty anastomosis [91, 96, 98, 172–176]. pancreas was 51%–75% in children with cystic fibrosis , 57.1% in a systematic review of patients with Although the pancreatic attenuation index can be used to esti- Shwachman–Diamond syndrome , and 94% of children mate fat content, its predictive value for specific outcomes, such with Pearson syndrome . These studies underscore the as POPF, remains limited . Histopathological analyses have increasing recognition of fatty pancreas in pediatric populations, shown that acinar cells play a critical role in the risk of compli- particularly in those with obesity, MASLD, or specific cations. A high acinar cell count at the resection margin is pre- syndromes. dictive of postoperative complications, such as pancreatic fistulas and acute pancreatitis . Further histological in- Question: What are the clinical consequences of fatty pancreas vestigations on the fat content of the resection margin will be in children? helpful in determining the impact of fatty pancreas on POPF. Statement 13.2: Fatty pancreas in children is increasingly recog- A fatty pancreas is often associated with metabolic syndrome and nized as a potential marker for metabolic syndrome, with its insulin resistance, conditions that further increase surgical risk presence correlating with higher levels of abdominal adiposity. . These systemic complications are exacerbated by heightened inflammation and elevated risk of thrombotic events, Level of evidence: 3. both of which can significantly impede postoperative recovery. Therefore, preoperative screening for obesity and fatty pancreas is Consensus agreement: 95% essential . Moreover, effective preoperative management strategies, including glycemic control and weight reduction, may Comment: The growing prevalence of fatty pancreas in children, help reduce the surgical risks associated with a fatty pancreas [88, particularly in the context of rising childhood obesity and 182–187]. Studies have shown that fatty pancreas, assessed through MRI, is an independent predictor of metabolic syndrome . In 2.5.13 | Chapter 13 children, fatty pancreas is more common among those with obesity, with its prevalence ranging from 18% to 50% [191, 193, fatty pancreas in the pediatric population?
