United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: pancreas, fatty, fatty pancreas, pancreatic, fat, evidence, studies, study, consensus, risk, metabolic, pancreatic fat, associated, patients, level


2.5.13 | Chapter 13 children, fatty pancreas is more common among those with obesity, with its prevalence ranging from 18% to 50% [191, 193, fatty pancreas in the pediatric population? the absolute amount of abdominal adiposity rather than its 14 of 31 United European Gastroenterology Journal, 2026 distribution . A study of Chinese children revealed that the significant . In cross‐sectional surveys, fatty pancreas was odds of metabolic syndrome were significantly higher in chil- also associated with the occurrence of metabolic syndrome, type dren with both obesity and fatty pancreas . Although 2 DM, and hypertension . The association of fatty pancreas pancreatic fat is located near insulin‐secreting beta‐cells and with hyperlipidemia , type 2 DM , forms part of the total ectopic fat , the association between obesity , hypertension , and metabolic fatty pancreas and the development of type 2 DM in children syndrome was confirmed in various retrospective and remains inconclusive. Some studies suggest that children with prospective cohort studies. A meta‐analysis showed that fatty both obesity and fatty pancreas may be at an increased risk for pancreas was significantly associated with increased aortic and insulin resistance and beta‐cell dysfunction, while others find carotid intima‐media thickness and increased vascular stiffness no significant link to glucose intolerance or prediabetes [190, , which are all markers of subclinical cardiovascular dis- children may indicate a higher lifetime risk of cardiovascular cardiovascular disease‐related events. diseases . While fatty pancreas may not cause imme- diate symptoms, studies in adults suggest it could predispose individuals to pancreatitis, PEI, or PC. However, no pediatric 2.5.15 | Chapter 15 studies have yet confirmed these risks. Question: Can fatty pancreas affect endocrine function and glucose homeostasis? 2.5.14 | Chapter 14 Statement 15.1: Fatty pancreas impacts the endocrine pancreas Question: Is fatty pancreas associated with MASLD? and may contribute to impaired insulin secretion and increased diabetes risk. Statement 14.1: Fatty pancreas is associated with the presence of MASLD. Level of evidence: 2. Level of evidence: 1. Consensus agreement: 97% Consensus agreement: 97% Comment: Among 80 cross‐sectional studies identified, 80% report a significant positive association between fatty pancreas Comment:. Fatty pancreas was strongly associated with MASLD and impaired beta‐cell function, reduced insulin secretion, or when evaluated with transabdominal sonography , CT the presence of prediabetes/diabetes. This association was , or MRI . The presence of fatty pancreas was evident across various methodologies for pancreatic fat quanti- associated with
