United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: pancreas, fatty, fatty pancreas, pancreatic, fat, evidence, studies, study, consensus, risk, metabolic, pancreatic fat, associated, patients, level


sonography , CT the presence of prediabetes/diabetes. This association was , or MRI . The presence of fatty pancreas was evident across various methodologies for pancreatic fat quanti- associated with an increased risk of MASLD in two meta‐ fication, including MRI , CT , and histological anal- analysis1 72136, Furthermore, fatty pancreas had a strong associa- ysis . Ten studies report a lack of a significant association tion with advanced fibrosis in patients with MASLD . Fatty that could not be explained by the reported study parameters pancreas was a significant predictor for the presence of MASLD in . One contributor to this heterogeneity is that beta‐cell a histological study , and this relationship seems to be medi- susceptibility to fat‐induced suppression appears to be geneti- ated by general obesity. However, a recent MRI study has found cally determined . The association between fatty no correlation between fatty pancreas and MASLD . pancreas and beta‐cell function or the presence of (pre)diabetes Furthermore, fatty pancreas did not fully accompany MASLD. appears to be modulated by several factors. First, stronger as- Despite having severe fatty pancreas, more than 25% of cases had sociations were observed in Asian populations , while normal liver echogenicity. Patients with fatty pancreas and those weaker or absent associations were reported in populations with with fatty liver have partially different demographic characteris- an African/Black ethnicity . Second, both hepatic fat and tics . measures of body weight are associated with fatty pancreas in most studies . Adjusting for these parameters reduces, Question: Is fatty pancreas associated with metabolic syndrome? but does not abolish, the relationship between fatty pancreas and beta‐cell function and (pre)diabetes, suggesting an inde- Statement 14.2: Fatty pancreas is associated with metabolic syn- pendent impact . Finally, stronger associations have been drome and its components, such as hypertension, hyperlipidemia, reported in individuals with a family history of DM and in males DM, and central overweight/obesity. As a consequence, fatty . Several prospective observational studies with 3–5 years of pancreas is associated with cardiovascular disease linked with follow‐up suggest that higher baseline pancreatic fat levels metabolic syndrome. predict an increased risk of type 2 DM or accelerated glycemic deterioration, although these associations were often attenuated Level of evidence: 2. after adjusting for total adiposity. In a UK Biobank study, each quintile of increased pancreatic fat was associated with a 22% Consensus agreement: 97% higher risk of developing
