United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: pancreas, fatty, fatty pancreas, pancreatic, fat, evidence, studies, study, consensus, risk, metabolic, pancreatic fat, associated, patients, level


evidence: 2. after adjusting for total adiposity. In a UK Biobank study, each quintile of increased pancreatic fat was associated with a 22% Consensus agreement: 97% higher risk of developing DM over 4.6 years in more than 40,000 individuals . A Japanese study found a similar association Comment: In a meta‐analysis, fatty pancreas was associated with only in lean persons (BMI < 25 kg/m2 ), independent of hepatic a significantly increased risk of having metabolic syndrome, fat and other confounders . A Mendelian randomization hypertension, type 2 DM, and central obesity . The asso- analysis of UK Biobank data did not find a causal link between ciation between fatty pancreas and hyperlipidemia was not fatty pancreas and type 2 DM risk . However, rare genetic United European Gastroenterology Journal, 2026 15 of 31 syndromes have demonstrated a co‐occurrence of markedly somatostatin receptor agonists]. In contrast, insulin, known to elevated pancreatic fat with hyperglycemia or DM [221–223]. promote the storage of excess glucose as fat, was not expected to be Several prospective interventional studies assessed whether a beneficial in patients with pancreatic fat. One randomized reduction of pancreatic fat is associated with improved glycemia placebo‐controlled trial of thiazolidinediones showed a signifi- or beta‐cell function. Overall, interventions achieving substan- cant reduction of fatty pancreas in preliminary results. Four tial weight loss, whether through dietary or bariatric surgical randomized controlled trials investigated the potential role of means, were effective in reducing fatty pancreas, which was GLP‐1 receptor agonists in individuals with type 2 DM. A relative accompanied by improvements in fasting glucose levels and reduction of fat between 10% and 23% was observed. The insulin secretion. One study demonstrated that the reac- administration of a DPP‐4 inhibitor in a randomized placebo‐ cumulation of pancreatic fat was associated with reduced in- controlled trial of individuals with type 2 DM showed a relative sulin secretion . To date, no adequately powered trials with reduction of fat of 16%. Regarding the physiopathological mech- long follow‐up periods have specifically addressed the impact of anisms, these results were associated with a decrease of the pharmacotherapy on fatty pancreas and its metabolic conse- endoplasmic reticulum stress. A double‐blind, placebo‐controlled quences. In summary, while the number of confounding factors trial showed that empagliflozin, a SGLT2 inhibitor, decreases makes it difficult to assess the independent effect of pancreatic hepatic fat and fasting glucose in overweight and obese in- fat on beta‐cell
