United European Gastroenterology Journal |
KEYWORDS: pancreas, fatty, fatty pancreas, pancreatic, fat, evidence, studies, study, consensus, risk, metabolic, pancreatic fat, associated, patients, level


showed that empagliflozin, a SGLT2 inhibitor, decreases makes it difficult to assess the independent effect of pancreatic hepatic fat and fasting glucose in overweight and obese in- fat on beta‐cell function, multiple lines of evidence from human dividuals with prediabetes, while pancreatic fat remains un- epidemiologic and intervention studies, alongside mechanistic changed, indicating that its metabolic benefits are independent of studies using animal models [223–228] and human pancreatic alterations in pancreatic fat . Similarly, dapagliflozin has adipose tissue [84, 229–231] suggest that fatty pancreas impacts been shown to reduce both hepatic and pancreatic fat and to beta‐cell function and may contribute to DM in the context of improve markers of liver inflammation, including serum alanine other risk factors. aminotransferase, tumor necrosis factor‐α, and interleukin‐6, in individuals with type 2 diabetes . A 12‐week, randomized, double‐blind, parallel‐group study comparing liraglutide and sitagliptin reported only transient, modest increases in plasma 2.5.16 | Chapter 16 pancreatic enzyme concentrations, with pancreatic exocrine function largely preserved, apart from a minimal sitagliptin‐ Question: What is the recommended approach for the treatment induced increase in intraduodenal fluid secretion . Howev- and monitoring of patients with fatty pancreas? er, the results of these trials are debatable because the sample sizes were small and the results were controversial . No ef- Statement 16.1: There is no specific recommendation to treat fatty fects were observed with thiazolidinediones, fibrates or pancreas. Treatment relies on the underlying etiology. In case of sulfonylureas. metabolic syndrome, targeted lifestyle changes, bariatric surgery, and glucose‐lowering medications are effective in reducing fat in Metabolic (or bariatric) surgery has shown a significant decrease the pancreas and total pancreatic volume. in pancreatic fat post‐surgery (from 26% to 67%) in all investi- gated observational studies [237, 243–246]. The median follow‐ Level of evidence: 1. up periods were 6–12 months. Nonetheless, the relationship between weight loss and fat reduction remains questionable as Consensus agreement: 95% their association has not yet been clearly demonstrated, despite fat deposition being associated with obesity and despite all pa- Statement 16.2: There are currently no specific recommendations tients losing weight after surgery [243–246]. No data dealing for the follow‐up of individuals with fatty pancreas. Monitoring is with treatment approaches for fatty pancreas as a consequence tailored to the underlying pancreatic diseases and associated of hereditary diseases or pancreatic tumors exists. Therefore, we metabolic risk factors. can assume that the pathophysiological process surrounding this procedure is different
