DISPATCHES
KEYWORDS: infection, cryptosporidium, human, parvum, felis, paromomycin, genotype, count, treatment, man, episodes, day, cell, patient, human infection


Human Infection with The specific HAART regimen was changed several times because of his poor immunologic and virologic response. In Cryptosporidium the course of years, the man had many episodes of oral candid- iasis, which were responsive to fluconazole therapy. In July felis: Case Report 2000, he weighed 87 kg and had a CD4+cell count of 52/mm3; at that time, HAART was changed to include ritonavir, indi- and Literature navir, stavudine, and didanosine. In November 2000, the patient had isolated episodes of diarrhea, but feces were not Review investigated for the presence of parasites. At the beginning of December 2000, he was affected by impetigo, which was Simone Cacciò,* Elena Pinter,† Rosanna Fantini,† treated with erythrocine (1800 mg/day). Two days after begin- Ivano Mezzaroma,† and Edoardo Pozio* ning that therapy, he began to have up to 10 episodes of diar- rhea per day. Erythrocine was interrupted after 3 days, and, in An infection with Cryptosporidium felis in an HIV-positive man the period of 1 week, the patient lost 9 kg. Stool specimens from Italy was successfully treated with paromomycin, despite were tested for a wide panel of enteric pathogens (bacteria, the patient’s having a CD4+ cell count of 31/mm3. Fourteen viruses, helminths, and protozoa, including microsporidia). cases of human infection with C. felis have been described, all The parasitologic examination of stools showed Cryptosporid- Cryptosporidium parasites other than C. parvum. was in the range of 4.5-4.9 m m. Oocysts reacted strongly with two monoclonal antibodies conjugated with fluorescein (Meri- Parasites belonging to the genus Cryptosporidium are an Fluor, Meridian Diagnostics, Cincinnati, OH; Cryptosporid- important and widespread cause of enteric disease in ium Immunofluorescence Test, Microgen Bioproducts Ltd, humans and in many other vertebrates. The most commonly UK). No other pathogen was found in the specimens. The identified etiologic agent of human cryptosporidiosis is patient was treated with paromomycin (1 g, 3 times/day). On Cryptosporidium parvum (1), which, based on the molecular the second day of treatment, the diarrhea promptly resolved, characterization of oocysts, can be divided into two genetically decreasing from 10 to 2 bouts per day. Paromomycin treatment distinct subpopulations: genotype 1 (or the “anthroponotic gen- was continued until mid-February (CD4+ cell count 31/mm3) otype”), which is associated exclusively with human infection; without further diarrheal episodes, and stools were negative for and genotype 2 (the “zoonotic genotype”), which is associated Cryptosporidium. with both human and animal infection (2). For
