DISPATCHES
KEYWORDS: infection, cryptosporidium, human, parvum, felis, paromomycin, genotype, count, treatment, man, episodes, day, cell, patient, human infection


with human infection; without further diarrheal episodes, and stools were negative for and genotype 2 (the “zoonotic genotype”), which is associated Cryptosporidium. with both human and animal infection (2). For many years, C. DNA was extracted from the whole feces according to the parvum was considered to be the only etiologic agent of human FastPrep method of da Silva et al. (4), and the diagnostic frag- infection. However, the use of molecular tools with a greater ment of the small subunit ribosomal RNA (ssu-rRNA) was capacity to detect and differentiate strains has resulted in the amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with the primer identification of other human pathogens: C. felis, C. meleagri- set CPBDIAGF and CPBDIAGR (5). The sequence of the dis, the C. parvum dog genotype, and possibly C. muris (2). PCR product was determined, and a comparison with all ssu- In Italy, all Cryptosporidium oocysts detected in immuno- rRNA Cryptosporidium sequences available in databanks competent and immunosuppressed persons have been identi- revealed 100% similarity with the homologous fragment of C. fied as C. parvum (3). In this report, we describe the first felis (accession number AF087577). To obtain additional Italian case of a human C. felis infection, which occurred in an information on the nature of the species, a PCR-restriction HIV-positive man who, in spite of a very low CD4+ cell count, fragment length polymorphism assay (primer set cry9 and successfully recovered with paromomycin treatment. cry15) (6) that targets a fragment of a Cryptosporidium oocyst wall protein gene was used (7). This second analysis con- The Study firmed the identification of C. felis (Figure). On December 12, 2000, a 42-year-old homosexual man To the best of our knowledge, this is the only case of a C. with severe diarrhea was admitted as an outpatient to the felis infection for which the clinical course and the response to man had been diagnosed with Hepatitis B virus infection in numerous reports of paromomycin treatment of human 1982 and with HIV infection in 1988. In 1989, his CD4+ cell Cryptosporidium infection, the results regarding the efficacy count had reached 189/mm3, and he started antiretroviral ther- of paromomycin are contrasting, possibly because it was apy with zidovudine. He was later treated with all nucleoside always assumed that the etiologic agent was C. parvum. The analogs (individually or combined), and in 1996 he began current knowledge that several species and genotypes can
