International Journal of Nanomedicine Dovepress
KEYWORDS: liver, exosomes, cells, mir-, injury, hcc, cell, fibrosis, stem, disease, dovepress, diseases, mscs, tcpdf, hepatic


ADAM10 (a target gene of miR-451a). By this means, hUCMSC-Exos inhibited paclitaxel resistance, cell cycle transition, proliferation, invasion, and migration of HCC cells, thereby promoting apoptosis of HCC cells.100 HCC can be inhibited by miR-125a and miR-125b, which repressed proliferation, stem cell properties, and migration of HCC cells through the CD90 pathway.139 treatment has a certain potential to become an alternative therapy for HCC. Compared with the anticancer drug, norcantharidin (NCTD) treatment alone, BMSC-Exos-NCTD delivery system showed a more significant antitumor effect, which was reflected in promoting cellular uptake, inducing cell cycle arrest, reducing tumor cell proliferation, and increasing apoptosis. Moreover, BMSC-Exo-NCTD increased cellular proliferation and inhibited hepatocyte oxidation without showing body toxicity.75 Additionally, adipose stem cell exosomes (ASC-Exos) have been shown to inhibit the hepatoma cell line growth and promote cancer cells and promote the growth of normal liver cells, thereby exerting a therapeutic effect on HCC. Liver cancer stem cells (CSCs) are a unique subset of HCC cells with stem cell characteristics, which have the ability of self- Nanog expression and regorafenib resistance in differentiated cells142 and induced tumor development and progression in vivo.137 Furthermore, exosomes can affect CSCs. Gu et al99 evidenced that the malignant behaviour of liver CSCs was blocked by exosomes through the C5orf66AS1/miR-127-3p/DUSP1/ERK axis. However, several researchers have previously found that MSCs promote HCC.143,144 MSCs interact with tumor cells in a myriad of ways that can support or suppress tumor growth. Klopp et al144 indicated that the effect of MSCs on tumors can be affected by several factors, including the heterogeneity of MSCs, the effects of propagating cells in vitro, the time of MSCs that enter the TME in vivo, and the variability of MSCs from patient to patient. This suggests that researchers should pay attention to the influence of the above factors on the results when stemness of liver CSCs, thereby achieving the therapeutic effect of HCC. However, attention should be paid to the potential role of MSC-Exos in promoting HCC to better apply them in clinical treatment. 2882 I n t e r n a t i o n a l J o u r n a l o f N a nomedicine 2023:18 DovePress Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) Dovepress Lu et al Ischemia and Reperfusion Injury Exosomes have been shown to play a protective role in organ ischemia and reperfusion (I/R) injury of organs, such as the brain and heart.145–147 Exosomes
