Rare disease
KEYWORDS: mthfr, deficiency, severe, reductase, methylenetetrahydrofolate, hcy, methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase, treatment, disease, bmj, case, hyperhomocysteinemia, mthfr deficiency, homocysteine, patients


Rare disease Case report Adult- onset methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase deficiency Daniela Vieira,1 Cristina Florindo,2 Isabel Tavares de Almeida,2 Maria Carmo Macário1 1Serviço de Neurologia, Centro SUMMARY cases, epilepsy and severe neurological impairment, Hospitalar e Universitário de Severe hyperhomocysteinemia (>100 µmol/L) is which leads to the need of long- term care.2 Brain Coimbra EPE, Coimbra, Portugal often associated with inborn errors of homocysteine atrophy and white matter disease are present in most 2Lab. Met&Gen, iMed, metabolism. It manifests typically in neonatal period with patients.3 Early treatment with betaine prevents Faculdade de Farmácia da developmental delay, hypotonia, feeding problems or cognitive damage and reduces mortality.4 Froese Universidade de Lisboa, Lisboa, failure to thrive. Adult- onset forms are rare and include et al summarised, in 2016, the variants reported in Portugal less severe manifestations. Early diagnosis is crucial the literature in families with severe MTHFR defi- Correspondence to because effective treatment is available. A 23-y ear- old ciency. There were 192 patients from 171 families, Dr Daniela Vieira; man presented with a 3- week history of speech and gait with a total of 109 mutations described. Only 121 examination revealed dysarthria, decreased vibratory of which 56 had a late- onset presentation.3 An addi- Accepted 4 February 2020 sensation in both legs and appendicular and gait ataxia. tional pathogenic mutation was described recently Brain MRI revealed T2- hyperintense symmetric white in a patient with compound heterozygosity.5 matter lesions and cortical atrophy. He had folate This case is about a late-o nset hyperhomocys- and vitamin B deficiency, a markedly elevated serum teinemia due to MTHFR deficiency associated homocysteine 1 a 2 nd low methionine. Despite vitamin with a novel pathogenic mutation (c.1003C>T supplementation homocysteine levels remained elevated. (p.Arg335Cys)) and a polymorphism (C677T Molecular studies of 5,10-m ethylenetetrahydrofolate (p.Ala222Val)), both in homozygosity. reductase (MTHFR) gene revealed a new pathogenic mutation (c.1003C>T (p.Arg335Cys)) and a CASe pReSenTATion polymorphism (C677T (p.Ala222Val)) associated with A 23- year-o ld man presented with a 3-w eek history hyperhomocysteinemia, both in homozygosity. The of insidious dysarthria, gait impairment and numb- patient started betaine with clinical and biochemical ness in both legs. He reported no weakness, head- improvement. ache, visual symptoms or any other problems. He denied recent infection or trauma. His medical history was unremarkable, including a full- term BACkgRoUnd pregnancy and a normal psychomotor develop- Methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) ment. His parents were half-s iblings; there was no is a cytoplasmic enzyme that
