Rare disease
KEYWORDS: mthfr, deficiency, severe, reductase, methylenetetrahydrofolate, hcy, methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase, treatment, disease, bmj, case, hyperhomocysteinemia, mthfr deficiency, homocysteine, patients


was unremarkable, including a full- term BACkgRoUnd pregnancy and a normal psychomotor develop- Methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) ment. His parents were half-s iblings; there was no is a cytoplasmic enzyme that catalyses the reduc- history of hereditary diseases. He had a diversified tion of 5,10- methylenetetrahydrofolate to diet, had no smoking or alcoholic habits, or history 5- methyltetrahydrofolate. Mutations in MTHFR of illicit drug consumption. Neurological examina- tion revealed dysarthria, a saccadic ocular pursuit, gene lead to hyperhomocysteinemia and homocys- global hyperreflexia, a markedly reduced vibra- tinuria due to abnormalities in the remethylation tory sensation on both lower limbs with a positive of homocysteine (Hcy) to methionine. Even mild Romberg test, an intentional symmetric upper limb hyperhomocysteinemia represents an important tremor, gait ataxia, and bilateral pes cavus. risk factor for atherosclerosis and vascular disease, including stroke, and it also contributes to the development of cognitive impairment.1 inveSTigATionS Severe MTHFR deficiency leading to severe Serum vitamin investigations revealed decreased hyperhomocysteinemia is a rare disorder, and its vitamin B (97 pg/mL; range value (RV): prevalence is unknown. Patients typically present 175–1500 pg/mL) and folate (1.4 ng/mL; RV: in neonatal period with feeding problems, failure 3–20 ng/mL). Blood count, biochemical analysis to thrive, muscular hypotonia, encephalopathy or and serologic studies were normal. Autoimmunity seizures.2 Vascular pathology is less frequent. Late- study, including for pernicious anaemia and coeliac © BMJ Publishing Group onset disease (>1- year old) occurs less frequently disease, was negative. Brain MRI showed T2-h y- Limited 2020. No commercial re- use. See rights and and with more variable manifestations including perintense lesions without contrast enhancement permissions. Published by BMJ. neurocognitive impairment, gait abnormalities, on both corona radiata, bilateral semioval centres, neurological disturbance compatible with myelop- periventricular and on right cerebellar hemisphere, To cite: Vieira D, Florindo C, athy or ataxia, psychiatric disorders or thrombo- and a global cortical atrophy (figures 1 and 2). Tavares de Almeida I, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2020;13:e232241. embolic events.2 If untreated, patients with severe Lower limb somatosensitive potentials revealed a doi:- MTHFR deficiency may exhibit significant devel- bilateral increased latency. The electromyogram 232241 opmental delay, mental retardation and, in some and upper digestive endoscopy were normal. Vieira D, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2020;13:e232241. doi: 1 Rare disease Figure 3 Homocysteine metabolism pathways. CBS, cystathionine β-synthase; MTHFR, methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase; MTR, methionine synthase; SAM, S- adenosylmethionine (adapted from Kadhim and Clement ). µmol/mmol creatinine (Cr); RV: 0.20–4
