Rare disease
KEYWORDS: mthfr, deficiency, severe, reductase, methylenetetrahydrofolate, hcy, methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase, treatment, disease, bmj, case, hyperhomocysteinemia, mthfr deficiency, homocysteine, patients


Rare disease Figure 3 Homocysteine metabolism pathways. CBS, cystathionine β-synthase; MTHFR, methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase; MTR, methionine synthase; SAM, S- adenosylmethionine (adapted from Kadhim and Clement ). µmol/mmol creatinine (Cr); RV: 0.20–4 µmol/mmol Cr), even after correction of vitamin B and folate deficiency. Plasma amino acid profile was normal including a normal level of methionine (40.7 µM; RV: 8.7−40.9 µM); urinary amino acid profile had no abnormalities except for a slight decreased level of methionine (1.4 µmol/mmol Cr; RV: 2.0–16.0 µmol/mmol Cr). Figure 1 Brain MRI images showing T2- weighted- Fluid- Attenuated The urinary organic acids showed no abnormalities including a Inversion Recovery (FLAIR) hyperintense lesions without gadolinium vestigial methylmalonic acid. Study of MTHFR gene revealed enhancement on both corona radiata/semioval centres bilaterally. the pathogenic mutation c.1003C>T (p.Arg335Cys) in homozy- gosity, in exon 5, confirming the diagnosis of MTHFR deficiency Patient initiated vitamin B and folate supplementation 12 since p.Arg335Cys is associated with homocystinuria. Addition- leading to a normalisation of its serum levels but without any ally, it was detected the polymorphism C677T (p.Ala222Val) in clinical improvement. Patient reported asthenia and subjective homozygosity in exon 5. memory problems, and he had increasing difficulties at work; despite that, neurological examination remained stable. diFFeRenTiAl diAgnoSiS Further diagnostic workup revealed increased levels of Hcy, Hcy is involved in two metabolic pathways—the remethylation both on plasma (202 µmol/L; RV: 5 –15 µmol/L) and urine (18.9 pathway, in which MTHFR and methionine synthase (MTR) leads to methionine synthesis; and the transsulfuration pathway, where cystathionine β-synthase degrades Hcy to cysteine (figure 3). Severe hyperhomocysteinemia (>100 µmol/L) is essentially pathognomonic for the presence of an inborn error of Hcy metabolism causing homocystinuria.6 7 This patient has a severe hyperhomocysteinemia ab initium which raised the suspicion of a genetic defect. He had vitamin B deficiency too and, despite vitamin supplementation, plasma Hcy remained elevated, which raised the possibility that another mechanism was contributing to hyperhomocysteinemia. The patient had no other identifiable causes of elevated Hcy. Within the group of genetic homocystinurias, plasma metab- olite profile and urinary methylmalonic acid can be helpful in the diagnosis of MTHFR deficiency. Differential diagnosis is summarised in table 1. Table 1 Causes of severe hyperhomocysteinemia and serum abnormalities disease enzyme/cofactor Hcy Met MMA Classical homocystinuria Cystathionine β-synthase ↑ ↑ N Cobalamin deficiency Cobalamin ↑ ↓ ↑ Figure 2 Brain MRI images showing T2- Fluid- Attenuated Inversion MTHFR deficiency MTHFR ↑ N/↓ N Recovery (FLAIR)
