Rare disease
KEYWORDS: mthfr, deficiency, severe, reductase, methylenetetrahydrofolate, hcy, methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase, treatment, disease, bmj, case, hyperhomocysteinemia, mthfr deficiency, homocysteine, patients


homocystinuria Cystathionine β-synthase ↑ ↑ N Cobalamin deficiency Cobalamin ↑ ↓ ↑ Figure 2 Brain MRI images showing T2- Fluid- Attenuated Inversion MTHFR deficiency MTHFR ↑ N/↓ N Recovery (FLAIR) hyperintense lesions without gadolinium enhancement Hcy, homocysteine; Met, methionine; MMA, methylmalonic acid; MTHFR, on corona radiata/ semioval centresand cortical atrophy. methilenetetrahydrofolate reductase. 2 Vieira D, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2020;13:e232241. doi: Rare disease TReATMenT irreversible deterioration.9 Therefore, this diagnosis may be kept After normalisation of vitamin B and folic acid, blood levels in mind in patients with a compatible history. Tests for plasma achieved with appropriated supplementation, the patient began Hcy and serum amino acids levels would be expected to show an specific treatment with betaine, a methyl group donor, 3 g three elevated Hcy and low methionine. MTHFR full sequencing can learning points oUTCoMe And Follow-Up Patient maintains treatment with betaine and vitamin supplemen- tation and after 3 years of follow-u p he keeps clinical improve- ► Inborn errors of metabolism may have a late- onset presentation. not interfere with daily activities. On neurological examination, ► Severe hyperhomocysteinemia may have neurological and psychiatric manifestations and is mostly associated with he maintains global hyperreflexia and a reduced vibratory sensa- genetic abnormalities. tion on both lower limbs, but there is a significant improvement of limb ataxia and gait unsteadiness. Serum Hcy decreased, but ► Patient prognosis depends on early diagnosis and specific treatment. remains elevated (100 µmol/L) despite the treatment. Brain MRI abnormalities remain stable, without new white matter lesions or atrophy worsening. Contributors Report was written by DV and MCM, and it was revised by ITdA and CF. diSCUSSion Funding The authors have not declared a specific grant for this research from any funding agency in the public, commercial or not- for- profit sectors. This case illustrates a late presentation of a rare inborn error in Hcy metabolism. It is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner Competing interests None declared. and typically presents in neonatal period.2 In a study with 30 patient consent for publication Obtained. patients, median age at onset of symptoms was 1.25 months provenance and peer review Not commissioned; externally peer reviewed. (range 0.1 months to 18 years).2 Consanguinity was present in 13 families. The main presenting clinical symptoms were muscular RefeRences hypotonia, feeding problems, failure to thrive, developmental 1 Moretti R, Caruso P. The controversial role of homocysteine in neurology: from Labs to residual activity
