The long QT interval syndromes
KEYWORDS: long, interval, patients, ventricular, testing, long interval, lqts, congenital, qtc, ecg, probability, syndrome, interval syndromes, exercise, syndromes


The long QT interval syndromes (LQTS) result from any congenital or acquired disorder of cardiac ion channel function or regulation (channelopathy) that prolongs ventricular myocyte action potential duration as reflected by prolongation of the rate-corrected QT interval on the ECG. Patients are at risk for torsades de pointes polymorphic ventricular tachycardia, which may cease spontaneously or degenerate into ventricular fibrillation. Diagnosis is by clinical criteria and ECG, sometimes with exercise and/or provocative testing. Treatment is avoidance of triggers, beta-blockade, and sometimes an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator. Long QT interval syndromes can be acquired, congenital, or both. (For discussion of acquired causes, see Torsades de Pointes Ventricular Tachycardia). The incidence of congenital LQTS is approximately 1 in 2000 (1) and is the cause of about 15% of cardiac arrests that are unexplained after clinical evaluation that includes and ECG, an echocardiogram, and ruling out coronary artery disease (2). Pathophysiology of Long QT Interval Syndromes The congenital long QT interval syndromes result from genetic disorders of cardiac ion channel function or regulation (channelopathies) that prolong ventricular myocyte action potential duration as reflected by prolongation of the rate-corrected QT interval on the ECG (QTc, typically calculated using Bazett's formula). QT Interval Correction (EKG) The dysfunction may involve Loss of function of repolarizing potassium current channels OR Gain of function of depolarizing sodium or depolarizing calcium current channels Prolongation of action potentials increases the probability of transmembrane voltage oscillations occurring during the depolarized myocyte action potential (early afterdepolarizations). If the action potential durations of myocytes in a local area vary, these oscillations may reactivate neighboring myocytes that have repolarized and thus create torsades de pointes ventricular tachycardia (TdeP VT). The risk of TdeP VT is dependent on the degree of QTc prolongation, particularly if it is > 0.50 second (1). LQTS (particularly LQTS3) may also cause paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. Predisposing factors for arrhythmia The occurrence of TdeP VT is favored by any condition that further prolongs action potential duration, including female sex, bradycardia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, and hypothyroidism. Other risk factors include slow or irregular ventricular rate, acute intracranial disasters (eg, bleeding, stroke, traumatic brain injury), eating disorders, organophosphate poisoning, and structural heart disease (especially acute ischemia, myocarditis, and ventricular hypertrophy). Many medications are risk factors, particularly class Ia, Ic, and III antiarrhythmic medications, as well as other medications, including tricyclic antidepressants, phenothiazines, and certain antivirals and antifungals (see CredibleMeds for up-to-date information). Often, several of these
