The long QT interval syndromes
KEYWORDS: long, interval, patients, ventricular, testing, long interval, lqts, congenital, qtc, ecg, probability, syndrome, interval syndromes, exercise, syndromes


class Ia, Ic, and III antiarrhythmic medications, as well as other medications, including tricyclic antidepressants, phenothiazines, and certain antivirals and antifungals (see CredibleMeds for up-to-date information). Often, several of these factors are present (2). Etiology of Long QT Interval Syndromes Long QT interval syndromes are classified based on the specific gene that has mutated. However, a specific genetic abnormality is identified in only 70 to 85% of cases (1); likelihood of detecting an abnormality varies depending on clinical factors present. More than 15 forms of LQTS have been described, but most cases fall into 3 subgroups: Long QT syndrome type 1 (LQTS1): Loss-of-function mutation of gene KCNQ1, which encodes an adrenergic-sensitive Kv7.1 channel responsible for the slow outward potassium current (IKs) Long QT syndrome type 2 (LQTS2): Loss-of-function mutation of gene KCNH2, which encodes the hERG channel responsible for the rapid outward potassium current (IKr) Long QT syndrome type 3 (LQTS3): Gain-of-function mutation of gene SCN5A, which encodes the Nav1.5 channel responsible for the inward sodium current (INa). The vast majority of cases are LQTS1, LQTS2, or LQTS3. These 3 forms are inherited as autosomal dominant disorders with incomplete penetrance. Rare forms of LQTS with additional clinical features have been described including Jervell and Lange Nielsen syndrome (with congenital neural deafness), Andersen-Tawil syndrome (with period paralysis and craniofacial dysmorphisms), and Timothy syndrome (with craniofacial dysmorphisms, immunodeficiency, congenital heart disease, developmental delay, and syndactyly). Overview of Long QT Syndrome Symptoms and Signs of Long QT Interval Syndromes The LQTS are asymptomatic unless TdeP VT occurs, which can cause palpitations, near syncope, or syncope. Some patients experience myoclonic jerks during syncope; they may incorrectly have a diagnosis of epilepsy pursued. Because the ventricular action potential duration decreases with increasing heart rate, TdeP VT is often self-terminating. However, it may degenerate into ventricular fibrillation and cause cardiac arrest and sudden death. In patients with LQTS, there is a 5-year risk of a first episode of life-threatening arrhythmia ranging from approximately 0.3% to 17% (1). Predictors include the following Age Sex Use of beta-blocker therapy (yes or no) Syncope (none, while not on beta-blocker therapy, or while on beta-blocker therapy) QTc interval Genotype (if available; higher in LQTS2 and LQTS3 than in LQTS-1) An online risk calculator for patients who have not yet had a life-threatening arrhythmia is available. Diagnosis of Long QT Interval Syndromes Characteristic clinical and electrocardiographic manifestations Sometimes exercise testing Sometimes
