The long QT interval syndromes
KEYWORDS: long, interval, patients, ventricular, testing, long interval, lqts, congenital, qtc, ecg, probability, syndrome, interval syndromes, exercise, syndromes


online risk calculator for patients who have not yet had a life-threatening arrhythmia is available. Diagnosis of Long QT Interval Syndromes Characteristic clinical and electrocardiographic manifestations Sometimes exercise testing Sometimes ambulatory ECG monitoring Sometimes provocative testing using IV epinephrine or isoproterenol Often genetic testing Screening of relatives Diagnosis should be considered in patients with unexplained cardiac arrest or syncope or a family history of such when the affected people do not have structural heart disease. It should also be considered in people who are discovered to have a long QT interval when ECG is done for other reasons. A long QT interval is diagnosed by ECG showing prolongation of the rate-corrected QT interval (QTc). Normal QTc values are < 0.43 second for males and < 0.45 second for females and are considered prolonged when > 0.45 second for males or > 0.47 second for females (1). However, given the multiplicity of factors affecting the QTc, a normal QTc does not exclude the diagnosis. Nevertheless, at the moment of torsade de pointes VT, the QTc is essentially always prolonged. 4/8 When a patient has a significantly prolonged QT interval and documented torsade de pointes VT in the absence of other causes of a prolonged QT interval, the diagnosis of a congenital long QT interval syndrome is established. Patients with borderline QT intervals suspected of having LQTS should have exercise testing, because some abnormalities appear only during exercise. Ambulatory ECG monitoring may also disclose transient ventricular repolarization abnormalities. In patients with a normal QTc interval, provocative testing with IV isoproterenol or epinephrine may disclose a concealed long QTc and should be considered in patients with an intermediate probability of a congenital LQTS. Because not all patients with a long QT interval have congenital long QT syndrome and because not all patients with a congenital long QT syndrome have a long QT interval on any given ECG, the Schwartz score has been developed to estimate the probability of a congenital LQTS (see table Schwartz Score for Long QT Syndrome). Probability is estimated as low, intermediate, or high based on clinical, ECG, and exercise testing criteria, provided that the patient is not presently exposed to any environmental causes of QT-interval prolongation. The score can be used to establish candidacy for genetic testing, which can be time-consuming and expensive because of the multiple gene variants to be tested for. Patients with a low probability of
