The long QT interval syndromes
KEYWORDS: long, interval, patients, ventricular, testing, long interval, lqts, congenital, qtc, ecg, probability, syndrome, interval syndromes, exercise, syndromes


be used to establish candidacy for genetic testing, which can be time-consuming and expensive because of the multiple gene variants to be tested for. Patients with a low probability of a congenital LQTS do not need genetic testing, but patients in whom the probability is intermediate or high do. High-probability patients without a detected genetic abnormality may be considered to represent one of the 15 to 30% of patients with an unidentified mutation. Intermediate- probability patients who are gene mutation–negative are followed closely with repeated electrocardiographic examinations including ECG, ambulatory cardiac monitoring, and exercise testing (2, 3). TABLE Schwartz Score for Long QT Syndrome (LQTS)* CRITERIA POINTS Patient History Syncope with stress† 2 Syncope without stress† 1 Congenital deafness 0.5 Family History Family member with known LQTS‡ 1 Family member with unexplained 0.5 cardiac death before age 30 ‡ Electrocardiography§ QTc ≥ 480 msec 3 QTc 460-479 msec 2 QTc 450-459 msec (males only) 1 5/8 CRITERIA POINTS QTc ≥ 480 msec during 4th minute of 1 recovery from an exercise test Torsades de pointe arrhythmia§ 2 T wave alternans 1 Notched T wave in 3 leads 1 Resting heart rate < 2nd percentile for 0.5 age * SCORE: ≤ 1 low probability; 1.5–3 intermediate probability; ≥ 3.5 high probability † Mutually exclusive (ie, if syncope occurs with stress, no points are given for syncope without stress) ‡ Mutually exclusive § If torsades de pointe present, do not score syncope First-degree family members of the index case should have clinical evaluation (ie, to detect symptoms suggestive of arrhythmia) and ECG. Thereafter, the first-degree family members of any newly identified patients undergo similar assessment (cascade screening). Genetic testing is done when the index case has a known mutation. Exercise testing is done when the results could alter the Schwartz score probability result. Some forms of LQTS are more associated with certain triggers than others. LQTS1: Physical stress, particularly swimming, or emotional stress LQTS2: Sudden loud noises like an alarm clock LQTS3: Sleep Some forms of LQTS are also associated with particular ECG patterns LQTS1: Wide T waves LQTS2: Low voltage, notched T-waves LQTS3: Long-ST segment with normal appearing T-waves However, neither the triggers nor the ECG findings are very specific and should not be used to confirm type or to direct genetic testing. Treatment of Long QT Interval Syndromes Treatment of any VT/VF Alleviation of predisposing causes and triggers, especially electrolyte
