The long QT interval syndromes
KEYWORDS: long, interval, patients, ventricular, testing, long interval, lqts, congenital, qtc, ecg, probability, syndrome, interval syndromes, exercise, syndromes


should not be used to confirm type or to direct genetic testing. Treatment of Long QT Interval Syndromes Treatment of any VT/VF Alleviation of predisposing causes and triggers, especially electrolyte abnormalities and use of certain medications Usually beta-blockade Sometimes mexiletine Sometimes an ICD Sometimes left cardiac sympathetic denervation Details of treatment of torsade de pointes ventricular tachycardia are discussed elsewhere but include cardioversion for torsade-induced VF and magnesium sulfate IV. Patients with frequent or long runs of torsades de pointes ventricular tachycardia may benefit from treatment to shorten the QT interval by increasing the heart rate using temporary pacing. Unlike medication-induced acquired torsade de pointes, the mainstay of acute IV pharmacotherapy is IV beta-blocker rather than IV isoproterenol. Long-term treatment to prevent sudden death includes avoidance of specific triggers (including strenuous exercise in LQTS1 and LQTS2) and QTc-prolonging conditions. When possible, clinicians should stop any predisposing medications and prescribe alternatives (see CredibleMeds for up-to-date information). Patients, particularly those who will not accept exercise restrictions, should be counseled on the need for appropriate cautions (eg, availability of an automated external defibrillator during training and competition). Beta-blocker therapy is recommended for most patients who have LQTS with QT interval prolongation or who are symptomatic (most effective with LQTS1 or LQTS2). When a beta-blocker is used, a long- acting beta-blocker without intrinsic sympathomimetic activity (eg, nadolol, slow-release propranolol) is preferred. When beta-blocker therapy is ineffective at relieving symptoms, mexiletine is added (most effective in LQTS3). Permanent pacing to increase the basal ventricular rate and to prevent post-extrasystolic pauses may reduce the probability of recurrent TdeP VT. An implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) is indicated in patients who have been resuscitated after cardiac arrest and in those who have cardiac syncope 7/8 despite therapy with a beta-blocker (see table Indications for Implantable Cardioverter-Defibrillators in Ventricular Tachycardia and Ventricular Fibrillation). Left heart (stellate ganglion) denervation may also be used (1). Key Points Congenital long QT interval syndromes may cause torsades de pointes ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, and sudden death. Numerous factors, particularly use of certain medications, increase the risk of ventricular arrhythmias. Diagnosis is based on a combination of clinical and electrocardiographic criteria, including exercise and sometimes provocative testing. Genetic testing is done on selected patients. Family members should be screened. Long-term management includes avoidance of triggers, use of beta-blockers, mexiletine, permanent pacing, an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator, or stellate ganglion denervation.
