Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy
KEYWORDS: cardiomyopathy, patients, hypertrophic, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, outflow, ventricular, symptoms, hypertrophy, cardiac, left, outflow tract, tract, syncope, obstruction, sudden


Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is a congenital or acquired disorder characterized by marked ventricular hypertrophy with diastolic dysfunction (eg, due to valvular aortic stenosis, coarctation of the aorta, systemic hypertension). Symptoms include dyspnea, chest pain, syncope, and sudden death. A systolic murmur, increased by Valsalva maneuver, is typically present in the hypertrophic obstructive type. Diagnosis is by echocardiography or cardiac MRI. Treatment is with beta-blockers, verapamil, disopyramide, mavacamten, and sometimes chemical reduction or surgical removal of outflow tract obstruction. A cardiomyopathy is a primary disorder of the heart muscle (see also Overview of Cardiomyopathies.) Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is a common cause of sudden death in young athletes. It may cause unexplained syncope and may not be diagnosed before autopsy. Etiology of Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Most cases of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy are inherited. At least 1,500 different mutations that are inherited in an autosomally dominant pattern have been identified; spontaneous mutations can also occur. Prevalence is 1:200 to 1:500 (1); phenotypic expression varies markedly. Rarely, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is acquired. It may develop in patients with acromegaly, pheochromocytoma, or neurofibromatosis. Pathophysiology of Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy The myocardium is abnormal with cellular and myofibrillar disarray, although this finding is not specific for hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. In the most common phenotype, the anterior septum and contiguous anterior free wall below the aortic valve are markedly hypertrophied and thickened, with little or no hypertrophy of the left ventricular (LV) posterior wall. Sometimes isolated apical hypertrophy occurs; however, virtually any asymmetric pattern of left ventricular hypertrophy can be observed, and in a small minority of patients even symmetric hypertrophy has been noted. About two thirds of patients exhibit obstructive physiology at rest or during exercise. Obstruction is the result of mechanical impedance to LV outflow during systole due to systolic anterior motion (SAM) of the mitral valve. During SAM, the mitral valve and valve apparatus are sucked into the LV outflow tract by a Venturi effect of high-velocity blood flow, resulting in obstruction of flow and decrease in cardiac output. Mitral regurgitation can also occur as the result of distortion of leaflet motion by SAM of the mitral valve. This obstruction and valvular regurgitation contribute to the development of symptoms related to heart failure. Less commonly, midventricular hypertrophy leads to an intracavitary gradient at the papillary muscle level, rarely resulting in increased LV wall stress and increased risk of LV apical aneurysm. Contractility is grossly normal, resulting in a normal ejection fraction (EF).
