Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy
KEYWORDS: cardiomyopathy, patients, hypertrophic, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, outflow, ventricular, symptoms, hypertrophy, cardiac, left, outflow tract, tract, syncope, obstruction, sudden


at the papillary muscle level, rarely resulting in increased LV wall stress and increased risk of LV apical aneurysm. Contractility is grossly normal, resulting in a normal ejection fraction (EF). Later, EF is elevated because the ventricle has a small volume and empties nearly completely to maintain cardiac output. Hypertrophy results in a stiff, noncompliant chamber (usually the left ventricle) that resists diastolic filling, elevating end-diastolic pressure and thus increasing pulmonary venous pressure. As resistance to filling increases, cardiac output decreases, an effect worsened by any outflow tract gradient present. Because tachycardia allows less time for filling, symptoms tend to appear mainly during exercise or tachyarrhythmias. (See also Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction.) Coronary blood flow may be impaired, causing angina pectoris, syncope, or arrhythmias in the absence of epicardial coronary artery disease (CAD). Flow may be impaired because capillary density relative to myocyte size is inadequate (capillary/myocyte imbalance) or lumen diameter of intramyocardial coronary arteries is narrowed by intimal and medial hyperplasia and hypertrophy. A supply-demand mismatch also may be present due to increased oxygen demand caused by the hypertrophy and adverse loading conditions. In some cases, myocytes gradually die, probably because capillary/myocyte imbalance causes chronic diffuse ischemia. As myocytes die, they are replaced by diffuse fibrosis. Then, the hypertrophied ventricle with diastolic dysfunction gradually dilates and systolic dysfunction develops. Symptoms and Signs of Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Typically, symptoms appear between ages 20 and 40 years and are exertional, but symptoms may be highly variable. They include dyspnea, chest pain (usually resembling typical angina), palpitations, and syncope. Because systolic function is preserved, fatigability is seldom reported. The abnormal diastolic 2/8 function is responsible for most symptoms. In patients with outflow tract obstruction, differentiation of symptoms due to the obstruction versus those caused by abnormal diastolic function can be difficult. Syncope may occur during exertion either because outflow obstruction worsens with increased contractility or because of ventricular or atrial arrhythmia. Syncope is a marker of increased risk of sudden death. Blood pressure and heart rate are usually normal, and signs of increased venous pressure are rare. When the outflow tract is obstructed, the carotid pulse has a brisk upstroke, bifid peak, and rapid downstroke. The apex beat may have a sustained thrust due to LV hypertrophy. A 4th heart sound (S4) is often present and is associated with a forceful atrial contraction against a poorly compliant left ventricle in late
