Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy
KEYWORDS: cardiomyopathy, patients, hypertrophic, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, outflow, ventricular, symptoms, hypertrophy, cardiac, left, outflow tract, tract, syncope, obstruction, sudden


sustained thrust due to LV hypertrophy. A 4th heart sound (S4) is often present and is associated with a forceful atrial contraction against a poorly compliant left ventricle in late diastole. In patients with the obstructive form of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, a systolic ejection-type murmur that does not radiate to the neck can be heard. This murmur is heard best at the left sternal edge in the 3rd or 4th intercostal space. A mitral regurgitation murmur due to distortion of the mitral apparatus may be heard at the apex. The left ventricular outflow ejection murmur of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy can be increased by a Valsalva maneuver (which reduces venous return and LV diastolic volume), measures to lower aortic pressure (eg, nitroglycerin), or a postextrasystolic contraction (which increases the outflow tract pressure gradient). Handgrip increases aortic pressure, thereby reducing the murmur’s intensity. Diagnosis of Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Clinical suspicion (syncope, other symptoms, or murmur) Echocardiography and/or MRI Diagnosis is suspected based on a typical murmur and symptoms. Suspicion is increased if the patient has a history of unexplained syncope or a family history of unexplained sudden death. Unexplained syncope in young athletes should always raise suspicion. Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy must be distinguished from aortic stenosis and coronary artery disease, which cause similar symptoms. Less common infiltrative cardiac disorders such as Anderson-Fabry disease and amyloid heart disease may mimic findings of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. ECG and 2-dimensional echocardiography and/or MRI (the best noninvasive confirmatory tests) are done. Chest x-ray is often done but is usually normal because the ventricles are not dilated (although the left atrium may be enlarged). Exercise testing and 24-hour ambulatory monitoring may be helpful for patients considered at high risk, although accurately identifying such patients is difficult. Patients with syncope or sustained arrhythmias should be evaluated as inpatients. Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy (Apical Variant) The ECG usually shows voltage criteria for LV hypertrophy (eg, S wave in lead V1 plus R wave in lead V5 or V6 > 35 mm). Very deep septal Q waves in leads I, aVL, V5, and V6 are often present with asymmetric septal hypertrophy; hypertrophic cardiomyopathy sometimes produces a QRS complex in V1 and V2, simulating previous septal infarction. T waves are usually abnormal; the most common finding is deep symmetric T-wave inversion in leads I, aVL, V5, and V6. ST-segment depression in the same leads is common (particularly in the apical obliterative form). The P wave is often broad
