Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy
KEYWORDS: cardiomyopathy, patients, hypertrophic, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, outflow, ventricular, symptoms, hypertrophy, cardiac, left, outflow tract, tract, syncope, obstruction, sudden


symmetric T-wave inversion in leads I, aVL, V5, and V6. ST-segment depression in the same leads is common (particularly in the apical obliterative form). The P wave is often broad and notched in leads II, III, and aVF, with a biphasic P wave in leads V1 and V2, indicating left atrial hypertrophy. Incidence of preexcitation phenomenon of the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome type, which may cause palpitations, is increased. Bundle branch block is common. Two-dimensional Doppler echocardiography can differentiate the forms of cardiomyopathy (see figure Forms of Cardiomyopathy) and quantify the severity of hypertrophy and degree of outflow tract obstruction. These measurements are particularly useful for monitoring the effect of medical or surgical treatment. Midsystolic closure of the aortic valve sometimes occurs when outflow tract obstruction is severe. Ambulatory 24-hour monitoring is recommended during the initial evaluation and every 1 to 3 years to assess risk of sudden cardiac death and help guide treatment of arrhythmias (1). Cardiac catheterization is usually done only when invasive therapy is considered. Usually, no significant stenoses are present in the coronary arteries, but older patients may have coexisting coronary artery disease. Genetic markers do not identify high-risk individuals or influence treatment. However, genetic testing may be of benefit in screening family members. Diagnosis reference 1. Maron BJ, Desai MY, Nishimura RA, et al. Diagnosis and Evaluation of Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy: JACC State-of-the-Art Review. J Am Coll Cardiol 2022;79(4):372-389. doi:10.1016/j.jacc.2021.12.002 Treatment of Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Beta-blockers Rate-limiting and negative inotropic calcium channel blockers Mavacamten Avoidance of nitrates, diuretics, and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors Possibly antiarrhythmics (eg, disopyramide, amiodarone) Possibly implantable cardioverter-defibrillator and sometimes surgery or ablative procedures Treatment of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is based on the phenotype. Patients without obstruction generally have a stable clinical course without significant symptoms, although some experience heart failure symptoms due to diastolic dysfunction. Beta-blockers and heart rate-limiting calcium channel blockers with a lower arterial dilation capacity (usually verapamil), alone or combined, are the mainstays. By slowing the heart rate, they prolong the diastolic filling period, which may increase left ventricular filling in patients with diastolic dysfunction. Long-term efficacy of such therapy, however, has not been proven. 5/8 In patients with the obstructive phenotype, in addition to attempts at improving diastolic function, treatment is directed at reducing the outflow tract gradient. Non-dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers (eg, verapamil, diltiazem), beta-blockers, and disopyramide reduce the outflow tract gradient through their negative inotropic effects. Disopyramide appears to be
