Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy
KEYWORDS: cardiomyopathy, patients, hypertrophic, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, outflow, ventricular, symptoms, hypertrophy, cardiac, left, outflow tract, tract, syncope, obstruction, sudden


is no proven difference on mortality between these interventions, but myomectomy is more effective for relieving obstruction and decreasing the need for repeat interventions (4). 6/8 Avoidance of competitive sports was previously recommended because sudden deaths can occur during increased exertion. Current guidelines recommend that athletes with HCM undergo comprehensive evaluation and shared discussion of potential risk with an expert HCM specialist. Treatment of the dilated congestive phase of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is the same as that of dilated cardiomyopathy with predominant systolic dysfunction. Genetic counseling is appropriate for patients with asymmetric septal hypertrophy. Prognosis for Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Overall, annual mortality is about 1% for adults but is higher for children. Death is usually sudden, and sudden death is the most common sequela; chronic heart failure occurs less often. A higher risk of sudden cardiac death is predicted by the presence of the following risk factors: Family history of sudden cardiac death due to hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, cardiac arrest, or sustained ventricular arrhythmias Personal history of unexplained syncope, cardiac arrest, or sustained ventricular arrhythmias Multiple repetitive non-sustained ventricular tachycardia (on ambulatory ECG) Massive left-ventricular hypertrophy (thickness ≥ 30 mm), LV dysfunction (EF < 50%) , LV apical aneurysm Extensive and diffuse late gadolinium enhancement on MRI Key Points 7/8 Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is usually due to one of numerous genetic mutations that cause various types of ventricular hypertrophy that restrict filling (ie, cause diastolic dysfunction) and sometimes obstruct LV outflow. Coronary blood flow may be impaired even in the absence of coronary artery atherosclerosis because capillary density is inadequate and the intramyocardial coronary arteries are narrowed by intimal and medial hyperplasia and hypertrophy. At a young age, patients may have chest pain, dyspnea, palpitations, syncope, and sometimes sudden death, typically triggered by exertion. Echocardiography is done, but, if available, MRI best shows the abnormal myocardium. Use beta-blockers and/or rate-limiting calcium channel blockers (usually verapamil) to decrease myocardial contractility and slow the heart rate and thus prolong diastolic filling and decrease outflow obstruction. Consider mavacamten to decrease left ventricular outflow tract gradient, improve exercise capacity, and reduce symptoms. Avoid nitrates and other medications that decrease preload (eg, diuretics, angiotensin- converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers) because these decrease left ventricular size and worsen left ventricular function. Place an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator for patients with syncope or sudden cardiac arrest. Do surgical myectomy or alcohol septal ablation in patients with symptoms despite medical therapy.
