Gilani et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2022) 22:962
KEYWORDS: tarda, infection, patient, edwardsiella, edwardsiella tarda, case, blood, goldfish, urinary, iran, tract, urinary tract, fish, pathogen, caused


CASE REPORT Open Access Urinary tract infection caused by Edwardsiella tarda: a report of the first case in Iran Abolfazl Gilani1 , Roham Sarmadian2* , Manijeh Kahbazi2 and Parsa Yousefichaijan3 Abstract Bckground: Edwardsiella tarda, an Enterobacteriaceae family member, is prevalent in different aquatic settings and rarely infects humans. As a result of eating raw or undercooked seafood, humans become infected through their intestinal tracts. Extraintestinal infections have been reported infrequently, mostly in immunocompromised and chronically ill patients. Case presentation: Our report describes a case of urinary tract infection caused by E. tarda in a 4-year-old female patient with a history of urinary tract infection and a complaint of fever, dysuria, and frequency. E. tarda was identified as the pathogen isolated from the urine culture. The patient’s symptoms were alleviated after receiving ceftriaxone and then nitrofurantoin. organs, including urinary tract. Our patient represents the first case of E. tarda infection in Iran and due to the fact that this pathogen is transmitted by aquatic animals, there is a possibility of infecting more aquatic animals and humans in Iran; therefore, the necessary precautions should be taken. Keywords: Edwardsiella tarda, Urinary tract infection, Waterborne infection Background with E. tarda typically manifests as enteritis. However, Edwardsiella tarda is a gram-negative, facultative anaer- extra-intestinal infections including soft tissue infections, obe belonging to the Enterobacteraceae family . This septicemia, hepatobiliary infections, meningitis, and bacterium is an unusual human pathogen and has been osteomyelitis have also been reported . cultured from the samples of human feces, blood, urine, Urinary tract infection (UTI) is one of childhood’s most cerebrospinal fluid, bile, peritoneal fluid, and wounds common bacterial infections . Enterobacteriaceae [2–4]. It is prevalent in water systems and is widely rec- families are the most common causes of UTIs. The most ognized as a pathogen of aquatic organisms . E. tarda frequent organism is Escherichia coli, which can cause infection risk factors include exposure to these organisms UTIs in 80 to 90% of children . However, sometimes and consumption of contaminated foods, such as sushi, UTIs can be caused by an atypical microorganism . raw fish, and raw meat . In humans, an infection E. tarda is an extremely uncommon UTI cause. E. tarda is typically responsible for UTIs in immunocompromised patients and those with a urethral catheter. To date, no *Correspondence: cases of E. tarda-associated UTIs have been reported in Sciences, Arak, Iran with prior medical history
