Gilani et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2022) 22:962
KEYWORDS: tarda, infection, patient, edwardsiella, edwardsiella tarda, case, blood, goldfish, urinary, iran, tract, urinary tract, fish, pathogen, caused


common goldfish 3–4 red blood cells, many white blood cells, and many was kept in a tank in residence for almost 2 weeks, and it bacteria per high-power field, as well as 1 protein and died about a week ago. The patient’s parents stated that + positive nitritite. Urine culture (UC) had also been per- she had put her hand into the fish tank several times. The formed, and the results revealed E. tarda species of more child had been hospitalized twice for UTI since last year. than 100,000 colony-forming units resistant to cefixime, During the second hospitalization, which was 8 months ciprofloxacin, cotrimoxazole, and nalidixic acid, but ago, a voiding cystourethrogram was conducted for sensitive to meropenem, tetracycline, and nitrofuran- the patient, and no signs of vesicoureteral reflux were toin. However, the blood culture was negative. Accord- observed. ing to a later call made to the center’s microbiologist On arrival, the patient’s general condition was good. for diagnostic information, the specimen was cultured Her vital signs were heart rate of 98 beats per minute, on MacConkey and blood agar containing 5% sheep red 115/65 mmHg blood pressure, respiratory rate of 23 blood cell, and it was later determined to be E. tarda via breaths per minute, oxygen saturation of 97% in ambient chemical tests as follows: The organism was motile and air, and 38.6 °C axillary temperature. During the exami- rod-shaped, and hydrogen sulfide production and indole nations, no costovertebral tenderness was detected. Neck production tests were positive for the organism. Manni- rigidity was also negative. The examination of the abdo- tol could not be fermented by the organism, but glucose men and genital area revealed no notable findings. could. Additionally, the urease, O-nitrophenyl-beta- d-galactoside, cytochrome oxidase, citrate, and Vogeus- Proskauer (VP) tests yielded negative results. Figures 1, 2 and 3 illustrate a portion of the urine culture findings. Fig. 3 From right to left: negative urease test, negative citrate test, positive sulphide indole motility test (motile and H2S producing), Fig. 1 Growth of β hemolytic E. tarda colonies on blood agar negative VP test, positive Kligler test (H2S producing) The patient’s parents had been advised to bring their woman undergoing chemotherapy for advanced uterine admittance, the patient had not been administered any organism was isolated from 13 patients with urinary tract medication. The patient was hospitalized due to her infection, none of which were associated with bactere- symptoms
