Gilani et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2022) 22:962
KEYWORDS: tarda, infection, patient, edwardsiella, edwardsiella tarda, case, blood, goldfish, urinary, iran, tract, urinary tract, fish, pathogen, caused


not been administered any organism was isolated from 13 patients with urinary tract medication. The patient was hospitalized due to her infection, none of which were associated with bactere- symptoms and the above tests. Initial blood tests revealed mia, and the majority of patients had chronically indwell- a white blood cell count of 11.93 103/µL with a differ- ing urethral catheters . Our patient, in contrast, had × ential of 59% neutrophils and 36% lymphocytes, hemo- no history of chronic illness or medication or urethral globin level of 13.32 gr/dL, platelet count of 359 103/ catheter use. × µL, blood sugar level of 96 mg/dL, and C-reactive pro- Although E. tarda produces β-lactamase, it rarely dis- tein level of 3 . Due to the patient’s headache complaint, plays resistance to β-lactam antibiotics . Antibiotics + which did not improve despite medication use at home, a with activity against Gram-negative bacilli, such as the magnetic resonance imaging of the brain was performed, majority of β-lactams, aminoglycosides, tetracyclines, which indicated no abnormalities. fluoroquinolones, and antifolates, are effective against The patient was administered 600 mg of intravenous nearly all E. tarda strains . However, in our case, the ceftriaxone every 12 h along with fluid therapy. On the isolated E. tarda strain was resistant to cefixime, cot- second day of hospitalization, due to the elimination of rimoxazole, and fluoroquinolones. Penicillins, cepha- fever and improvement in the patient’s symptoms, the losporins, and carbapenems are frequently used in the patient was discharged with the instruction to take nitro- treatment of E. tarda . Our patient was also initially furantoin suspension 25/5 mg, 9 cc every 8 h for 1 week. treated with ceftriaxone, which resulted in the improve- After a week, the urinalysis results were as follows: 3–4 ment of the patient’s symptoms. white blood cells, 0–1 red blood cell, and no bacteria per Historically, E. tarda has been identified in a wide vari- high power field, and also negative protein and nitrite. ety of reptiles, amphibians, and fish, including catfish and The UC revealed no growth after 24 h. eels, in both fresh and brackish water settings, and it can also cause disease in these animals . According to the Discussion and conclusions research carried out by Preena et al., E. tarda is one of Edwardsiella tarda is an uncommon pathogen from the the pathogens that can infect goldfish species and cause Enterobacteriaceae family
