Gilani et al. BMC Infectious Diseases (2022) 22:962
KEYWORDS: tarda, infection, patient, edwardsiella, edwardsiella tarda, case, blood, goldfish, urinary, iran, tract, urinary tract, fish, pathogen, caused


carried out by Preena et al., E. tarda is one of Edwardsiella tarda is an uncommon pathogen from the the pathogens that can infect goldfish species and cause Enterobacteriaceae family that can rarely infect humans. 100% mortality in these fish . In addition, this patho- The human infection rate is 0.0073% in Japan and 1% in gen poses a serious threat to aquaculture globally. Con- Panama. According to a cohort study conducted in Japan tact with goldfish is likely to cause illness in humans . between January 2005 and December 2016, the incidence Likewise, our patient was frequently exposed to goldfish rate of E. tarda is 0.02%, and the mortality rate within prior to the onset of symptoms. Additionally, the gold- 90 days is 26.9% . fish died after a short time, which could be indicative of Clinical complications of E. tarda infection are enteri- infection by E. tarda. tis, liver abscess, cholecystitis, spontaneous bacterial Goldfish is one of the 7 Haft Seen items in Iran. Haft peritonitis, mycotic aneurysm, necrotizing fasciitis, Seen is an arrangement of seven symbolic objects that is empyema, osteomyelitis, psoas abscess, spinal epidural customarily displayed during the Nowruz holidays begin- abscess secondary peritonitis and UTI . ning on March 21. Goldfish are indigenous to China. Our patient is the first case of human E. tarda infection According to government accounts, it has been brought in Iran and the second in the Middle East. According to from China to Iran in past years due to cultural require- the reports, E. tarda infection cases are mostly reported ments. In recent years, however, it has been widely cul- in East Asia, Australia, North and South America . tivated in Iran. Also, each year following the Nowruz Edwardsiella tarda infection frequently occurs when holiday, people release millions of these fish into the water temperatures are high, particularly from summer rivers and lakes of Iran . This is also a significant to autumn . It is more common in the elderly, with an concern in the United States and Canada. In 2015, for average age of 61 years . In contrast, our patient was a instance, the Canadian government urged people to stop 4-year-old child with E. tarda infection in spring. releasing fish into lakes. Considering that goldfish carry Intestinal symptoms such as gastroenteritis are the several parasites and can reproduce rapidly in harsh most frequent manifestations of E. tarda
