Gut, 1980, 22, 199-202
KEYWORDS: milk, cow, challenge, infants, cow milk, culture, phosphatase, alkaline, organ, biopsy, alkaline phosphatase, organ culture, specimens, histological, seven


Gut, 1980, 22, 199-202 In vitro diagnosis of cow's milk protein sensitive enteropathy by culture method organ N IYNGKARAN*, M YADAV, S BALABASKARAN, AND E SUMITHRAN From the Departments ofPaediatrics, Biochemistry, andPathology, Faculty Medicine, of SUMMARY Thecriteriathatareusedatpresentto diagnose cow'smilkprotein sensitiveenteropathy (CMPSE) are based on an in vivo milk challenge which can be hazardous and life threatening. We have used an organ culture model to determine the usefulness ofthis technique in establishing the diagnosis ofCMPSE on the basis ofa single biopsy with in vitro milk challenge. Fourteen infants withdiarrhoeaclinically suspected to have CMPSEwere studied prospectively. Onthe basis ofmilk challengestudies seveninfantshad CMPSE. Theyhadclinicalreactiontocow'smilkwithassociated histological changes and depression of alkaline phosphatase levels in the jejunal mucosa. In all sevencases parallelchangesinalkalinephosphataselevelswerenoted intheorganculture specimens ofinitial biopsy subjected to in vitro challenge. The seven control infants tolerated cow's milk and did not have histological changes. The alkaline phosphatase levels were moderately increased inthe jejunal mucosa in five of the seven infants. The alkaline phosphatase levels in the organ culture specimens of initial biopsy were increased after in vitro challenge in all seven infants. This study suggests that organ culture methods may be useful in the in vitro diagnosis of CMPSE, and also obviate the need for in vivo oral milkchallenges and repeated biopsies. Although cow's milk protein sensitive enteropathy whowereadmittedtotheDepartmentofPaediatrics (CMPSE)isacommoncauseofpersistentdiarrhoea, between November 1978 to February 1979 were malabsorption, and failure to thrive in infancy,12 studied. Treatment initially involved elimination of there is as yet no satisfactory or generally accepted cow's milk and substitution of a formula free of wayofdiagnosingit.TheclinicalcriteriaofGoldman cow's milk (Sobee, Nutramigen, Pregestimil, or et al.3 and Powell4 and the clinical and histological breast milk). When a satisfactory response was approaches of Shiner et al.5 and Iyngkaran et al.6 obtained, assessed clinically by lack of symptoms have their advantages and disadvantages. Recently and satisfactory weight gain, the infants were organ culture methods have been successfully used discharged and the parents instructed not to intro- in studying the effect of gluten on the small bowel duce any new food item without our knowledge. mucosa ofpatients with coeliac disease.7 This study About six to eight weeks later the infants were wasundertakentodeterminetheusefulness oforgan readmitted for milkchallenge studies. culture technique in establishing the diagnosis of CMPSE. LOW-LACTOSE COW S MILK PROVOCATION TEST Methods LactolacV(Co-operatieveCondensfabriekFriesland, Holland) was used for the challenge. Ifno reaction PATIENTS occurred afteran initial feeding of5ml, the volume Fourteeninfantswith diarrhoea, clinically suspected was doubledhourly forthefirstfourhoursandsub- to
