Gut, 1980, 22, 199-202
KEYWORDS: milk, cow, challenge, infants, cow milk, culture, phosphatase, alkaline, organ, biopsy, alkaline phosphatase, organ culture, specimens, histological, seven


S MILK PROVOCATION TEST Methods LactolacV(Co-operatieveCondensfabriekFriesland, Holland) was used for the challenge. Ifno reaction PATIENTS occurred afteran initial feeding of5ml, the volume Fourteeninfantswith diarrhoea, clinically suspected was doubledhourly forthefirstfourhoursandsub- to be caused by intolerance to cow's milk protein, sequently three hourly until the daily fluid require- ment was met. After challenge the infants were *Addressforreprintrequests:NIyngkaran,DepartmentofPaediatrics closelymonitoredforclinicalsymptoms. Thebiopsy FacultyofMedicine,UniversityofMalaya,KualaLumpur,Malaysia. specimens were taken with the Watson paediatric ReceivedforpublicationFebruary1980. capsule at or just distal to the duodenojejunal 200 Iyngkaran, Yadav, Balabaskaran, andSumithran junctionunderfluoroscopic control. Jejunal biopsies cillin 0.17 mmol/l (6-2g/100ml), streptomycin 0.2 were routinely taken before and 24 hours after milk mmol/l (13.5 mg/100ml), glutamine 2mmol/l (30 challenge. Examination of the stools and jejunal mg/100ml), and glucose 1.25mmol/1 (366mg/100 biopsy studies before and after milk provocation ml). The medium was sterilised by Millipore filtra- was carried out as described previously.26 tion through 0-22,um filter and treated before use The pre-challenge jejunal biopsy specimens were with95% °2and 5%CO2 gasmixture. divided into four pieces: two were placed in organ The two pieces of pre-challenge biopsy specimen culture medium, one piece was used for alkaline for organ culture were trimmed to about 3x3mm phosphatase assay, and one piece was fixed in 10% each. Thetwo specimens wereplacedvillous sideup formaldehyde for histological studies. Twenty-four single onto separate stainless-steel wire mesh grids hours after milk challenge the post-challenge biopsy (Falcon 3014, 60 mesh) and each grid was then sus- was obtained and analysed foralkaline phosphatase pended over thecentral wellofaplasticculturedish levelandhistologicaldeterioration. (No. 3037, FalconPlastics, LosAngeles, California). Histological appearances of the biopsies were To the central well of one culture dish was added graded as described previously." about 1 mlofculturemediumandtothecentralwell Thepatientswereclassified intotwogroupsonthe ofthe second culture dish 1 ml ofRPMI 1640 sup- basis ofhistopathological changesinthegutmucosa plemented with cow's milk. In both cases the and thedevelopment ofclinical symptoms especially volume of the respective fluid medium added was diarrhoea after milk challenge (Table 1). Seven such that the grid was lifted off its rest by surface infants had no mucosal abnormality or clinical tension. This practice considerably enhanced the symptoms. These patients, considered as controls in viability and growth of the tissue. Parallel in vitro the present study, clinically tolerated oral feeds of studies in presence of only RPMI 1640 medium or cow's milk, required no further treatment, and RPMI 1640 supplemented with cow's milk, in the continued to develop normally. The other seven centralwelloftheculturedisheswasperformedinall infants were intolerant to cow's milk and the oral
