Aortic Stenosis
KEYWORDS: aortic, valve, stenosis, patients, severe, aortic stenosis, aortic valve, replacement, heart, valve replacement, symptoms, murmur, risk, area, valve area


Aortic stenosis (AS) is narrowing or restricted opening of the aortic valve, obstructing blood flow from the left ventricle to the aorta during systole. Causes include a congenital bicuspid valve, idiopathic degenerative sclerosis with calcification, and rheumatic fever. Untreated AS progresses to become symptomatic with one or more of the classic triad of syncope, angina, and exertional dyspnea; heart failure and arrhythmias may develop. A crescendo- decrescendo ejection murmur is characteristic. Diagnosis is by physical examination and echocardiography. Asymptomatic AS in adults usually requires no treatment. Once symptoms develop, surgical or percutaneous valve replacement is required. For severe or symptomatic AS in children, balloon valvuloplasty may be effective, but surgery is often required. (See also Overview of Cardiac Valvular Disorders.) Etiology of Aortic Stenosis In older patients, the most common precursor to aortic stenosis is: Aortic sclerosis Aortic sclerosis is the deposition of calcium on the aortic valve leaflets, seen in 25 to 45% of adults over age 65 (1, 2). The cause of aortic sclerosis and stenosis is not yet known but is mediated by an inflammatory process similar to but distinct from atherosclerosis. Genetic, anatomic, fluid dynamic, and environmental risk factors include hypertension, smoking, high cholesterol, and presence of a bicuspid valve. Lipid deposition and inflammation initially lead to thickening of aortic valve structures by fibrosis and calcification without causing significant obstruction. Aortic sclerosis progresses to severe aortic stenosis in approximately 10% of patients within 5 years (3). Lipoprotein (a) is implicated in the pathogenesis of both aortic stenosis and atherosclerosis. Elevated lipoprotein (a) levels also predict faster hemodynamic progression of AS. 1/12 Patients with psoriasis are also at increased risk for atherosclerosis, and more recently, psoriasis has been tied to an increased risk of aortic stenosis. In patients < 70 years, the most common cause of aortic stenosis is: A congenital bicuspid aortic valve Congenital aortic valve disease, including bicuspid aortic valve and aortic stenosis, occurs in 0.5 to 2% of people and affects more males (4); it is associated with coarctation and progressive dilatation of the ascending aorta, causing aortic dissection. Aortic stenosis in neonates can also accompany hypoplastic left heart syndrome and its variants. In medically underserved countries, the most common cause of aortic stenosis in all age groups is: Rheumatic fever Supravalvular AS caused by a discrete congenital membrane or narrowing of the sinotubular junction or ascending aorta is uncommon. Supravalvular AS can be
