Aortic Stenosis
KEYWORDS: aortic, valve, stenosis, patients, severe, aortic stenosis, aortic valve, replacement, heart, valve replacement, symptoms, murmur, risk, area, valve area


murmur of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, which can otherwise resemble that of AS. The murmur of mitral regurgitation due to prolapse of the posterior leaflet may also mimic AS. Diagnosis of Aortic Stenosis Echocardiography Diagnosis of aortic stenosis is suspected clinically and confirmed by echocardiography. Two-dimensional transthoracic echocardiography is used to identify a stenotic aortic valve and possible causes, to quantify LV hypertrophy and degree of systolic dysfunction, and to detect coexisting valvular heart disorders (aortic regurgitation, mitral valve disorders) and complications (eg, endocarditis). Doppler echocardiography is used to quantify degree of stenosis by measuring jet velocity, transvalvular systolic pressure gradient, and aortic valve area. Severity of aortic stenosis is characterized echocardiographically as (1): Mild: Peak aortic jet velocity 2.5 to 2.9 m/second, mean gradient 10 to 20 mm Hg, or valve 2 area 1.5 to 2.0 cm Moderate: Peak aortic jet velocity 3 to 4 m/second, mean gradient 20 to 40 mm Hg, or valve 2 area 1.0 to 1.5 cm Severe: Peak aortic jet velocity > 4 m/second, mean gradient > 40 mm Hg, or valve area < 2 1.0 cm Very severe: Peak aortic jet velocity > 5 m/second or mean gradient > 60 mm Hg Clinical judgment and critical review of the data are used to resolve any discordance among these parameters (eg, moderate valve area but severe mean gradient). When LV function is normal, peak velocity is preferred as it is significantly more reproducible than valve area (2). Quantification of aortic 5/12 valve stenosis is least accurate when LV volume or systolic function is reduced, or when systemic hypertension is present. Aortic Stenosis VIDEO The gradient may be overestimated when aortic regurgitation is present. The gradient may under- represent severity when the stroke volume is low, eg, in patients with systemic hypertension or LV systolic dysfunction (low-gradient AS with reduced EF) or a small, hypertrophied LV (low-gradient AS with normal EF—see table Types of Severe Aortic Stenosis). Sometimes LV systolic dysfunction results in low ventricular pressure that is inadequate to open nonstenotic valve leaflets, causing echocardiographic appearance of low valve area in the absence of stenosis (pseudo-stenosis). Differentiation of pseudo-stenosis from low-gradient AS can be aided by calculation of the ratio of outflow tract to aortic velocity (Doppler velocity index [DVI]). A DVI value < 0.25 suggests true severe stenosis. Assessment of the degree of valve calcification by computed tomography (CT) can help determine the severity of
