Aortic Stenosis
KEYWORDS: aortic, valve, stenosis, patients, severe, aortic stenosis, aortic valve, replacement, heart, valve replacement, symptoms, murmur, risk, area, valve area


ECG testing is recommended in an attempt to elicit symptoms of angina, dyspnea, or hypotension—any of these symptoms, when due to the AS, is an indication for intervention. Failure to normally increase blood pressure and development of ST-segment depression are less predictive of adverse prognosis. Exercise testing is contraindicated in symptomatic patients. Phonocardiographic Characteristics of Heart Murmurs Treatment of Aortic Stenosis Sometimes aortic valve replacement Nothing has been proved to slow the progression of aortic stenosis (1). Statins have been ineffective (2). Medications that can cause hypotension (eg, nitrates) should be used cautiously, although nitroprusside has been used as a temporizing measure to reduce afterload in patients with decompensated heart failure in the hours before valve replacement. Patients who develop heart failure but are too high risk for valve intervention benefit from cautious treatment with digoxin, diuretics, and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. Indications for intervention The benefits of intervention do not outweigh the risks until patients develop symptoms and/or meet certain echocardiographic criteria. Thus, patients should have periodic clinical evaluations, including echocardiography and sometimes exercise testing, to determine the optimal time for valve replacement (1). Valve replacement is recommended when aortic stenosis is severe and there is any one of the following: Symptoms Exercise testing causing symptoms or showing reduced effort tolerance or a fall in blood pressure ≥ 10 mm Hg below baseline) LV EF < 50% In addition, if surgical risk is low, then surgery may also be considered in asymptomatic patients with severe AS if there is any one of: Very severe AS (aortic velocity > 5 m/second) Brain (B-type) natriuretic peptide (BNP) is > 3 times normal Severe pulmonary hypertension without other explanation Decline in EF to < 60% Severe valve calcification with rapid progression of stenosis (reduction in aortic valve area ≥ 0.3 m/second/year) Evidence also supports surgical intervention in asymptomatic but severe AS. When cardiac surgery is being performed for other reasons, concomitant aortic valve surgery is indicated regardless of symptoms if the AS is moderate or greater. Choice of intervention 9/12 Transcatheter balloon valvuloplasty is used primarily in children and very young adults with congenital AS. In older patients who are not candidates for surgery, balloon valvuloplasty has been used as a bridge to valve replacement, but this procedure has a high complication rate and provides only temporary relief. Transcatheter valve implantation, which can be performed with similar procedural risk even in sick,
