Aortic Stenosis
KEYWORDS: aortic, valve, stenosis, patients, severe, aortic stenosis, aortic valve, replacement, heart, valve replacement, symptoms, murmur, risk, area, valve area


to valve replacement, but this procedure has a high complication rate and provides only temporary relief. Transcatheter valve implantation, which can be performed with similar procedural risk even in sick, high-risk patients, is more common. Surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR) usually involves replacement with a mechanical or bioprosthetic valve. In younger patients, the patient’s own pulmonary valve can be used, with a bioprosthesis then used to replace the pulmonary valve (Ross procedure). The advantage of the Ross procedure rather than SAVR to replace the aortic valve only is increased durability of the procedure. The valve exposed to systemic pressure is the patient's own pulmonary valve, and this lasts longer than other replacement valves. The bioprosthesis in the pulmonary position tends to also last a relatively long time. Transcatheter (percutaneous) aortic valve implantation (TAVI) (sometimes called transcatheter aortic valve replacement, or TAVR) is a less invasive method of aortic valve replacement. TAVI valves are constructed differently than SAVR valves; TAVI valves are inserted through an artery in a collapsed configuration to the aortic valve site and are then deployed/expanded to replace the stenotic aortic valve. The choice is between the up-front risk and morbidity of SAVR versus the unknown durability of TAVI valves beyond 10 years, although durability studies ranging up to 10 years suggest a structural valve degeneration rate < 10% within that time frame (3, 4, 5). Guidelines to inform shared decision-making suggest SAVR for patients < 65 years; TAVI is preferred for patients whose arteries are suitable for the transfemoral approach and who are > 80 years or who have a life expectancy of < 10 years. In patients aged 65 to 80 years whose arteries are suitable for transfemoral TAVI, the decision regarding SAVR or TAVI is determined based on individual patient characteristics (1). If the patient’s arteries are not suited to the transfemoral route, then SAVR is preferred as long as surgical risk is not prohibitive. In patients with a life expectancy of < 1 year even with a successful procedure, intervention is not recommended. Compared with SAVR, transfemoral TAVI has lower short-term mortality and less risk of stroke, major bleeding, and atrial fibrillation. TAVI also requires a shorter hospital stay, causes less pain, and permits more rapid return to activity; however, it also increases vascular complications and paravalvular regurgitation and increases the need for permanent pacemaker implantation and early repeat valve intervention. Indications for TAVI
