Aortic Stenosis
KEYWORDS: aortic, valve, stenosis, patients, severe, aortic stenosis, aortic valve, replacement, heart, valve replacement, symptoms, murmur, risk, area, valve area


more rapid return to activity; however, it also increases vascular complications and paravalvular regurgitation and increases the need for permanent pacemaker implantation and early repeat valve intervention. Indications for TAVI will expand as research includes younger and less symptomatic patients, although trials should be interpreted with caution due to potential flaws in methodology (6, 7). Preoperative evaluation for CAD is indicated so that coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) and valve replacement, if indicated, can be performed during the same procedure. 10/12 An aortic bioprosthetic valve requires anticoagulation for 3 to 6 months postoperatively, but a mechanical valve requires lifetime anticoagulation using warfarin. Long-term non-vitamin K oral anticoagulants or warfarin can be considered in patients with a bioprosthetic valve and atrial fibrillation (see also Anticoagulation for patients with a prosthetic cardiac valve or native valve disease). Prognosis for Aortic Stenosis Aortic stenosis progresses faster as severity increases, but the wide variability in progression rates requires regular surveillance, particularly in sedentary older patients. In such patients, flow may become significantly compromised without triggering symptoms. Asymptomatic patients with severe AS and normal systolic function should be reevaluated every 6 months because up to 11% may have a fall in LVEF after one year(1). The risk of surgery outweighs the survival benefit in asymptomatic patients, but with the onset of symptoms the mean survival drops to 3 years (2), and prompt valve replacement is indicated to relieve symptoms and improve survival. Risk of surgery increases for patients who require simultaneous CABG and for those with depressed systolic LV function. In patients with severe AS, approximately 13% of deaths occur suddenly (3), so patients with severe AS should be advised to limit physical exertion. Key Points The most common cause of aortic stenosis (AS) is bicuspid aortic valve in patients < 70 years and aortic sclerosis in older patients. Untreated AS ultimately results in exertional syncope, angina, and dyspnea; sudden death may occur. Typical heart sounds are a crescendo-decrescendo ejection murmur that increases with maneuvers that increase left ventricular (LV) volume and contractility (eg, leg-raising, squatting, Valsalva release) and decreases with maneuvers that decrease LV volume (Valsalva maneuver) or increase afterload (isometric handgrip). Nitrates may cause dangerous hypotension and should be used with caution for angina in patients with AS. Exercise testing is useful for risk stratification and determining the need for surgery for patients without clear symptoms. Valve replacement is indicated once symptoms begin
