Cerebrotendinous Xanthomatosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cerebrotendinous, cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis, xanthomatosis, acid, ctx, bile, treatment, patients, clinical, cdca, bile acid, early, synthesis, cholestanol


ABSTRACT Cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis is a rare autosomal recessive disorder caused by homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations in the CYP27A1 gene. These patients lack mitochondrial sterol 27-hydroxylase enzyme, which is responsible for conversion of cholesterol to cholic acid and chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA) in bile acid synthesis pathway. CYP27A1 mutation leads to decreased synthesis of bile acid, excess production of cholestanol, and consequent accumulation of cholestanol in tissues, including brain, leading to progressive neurological dysfunction marked by dementia, spinal cord paresis, and cerebellar ataxia. Deposition in other tissues causes tendon xanthomas, premature atherosclerosis, and cataracts. The clinical manifestations usually start at infancy and develop during the first and second decades of life. The diagnosis of CTX is based on clinical findings, biochemical testing, and neuroimaging. Molecular genetic analysis although not necessary for initiation of treatment, provides definitive confirmation of CTX. Early initiation of CDCA is the treatment of choice for neurological and non-neurological symptoms of CTX and treatment with cholic acid has also been shown to be effective for non-neurological symptoms. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis (CTX; OMIM#213700) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder of bile acid metabolism and lipid storage characterized by abnormal deposition of cholestanol and cholesterol in multiple tissues. It is caused by homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the CYP27A1 gene located on chromosome 2q33-qter. CYP27A1 gene encodes sterol 27-hydroxylase which is involved in bile acid synthesis. Over 100 different mutations (missense, deletions, insertions, splice site, and nonsense mutations) of the CYP27A1 gene have been reported worldwide in patients of different ethnic origin ( 1 , 2 ). About 50% of these mutations were found in the region of exons 6–8 of the CYP27A1 gene, however here is no genotype phenotype correlation ( 3 , 4 ). The metabolic pathway for bile acids synthesis is shown in the figure 1 . Figure 1. Bile acids are synthesized from cholesterol in the liver through two pathways: the classic pathway and the alternative pathway. The bile acid synthesis mainly produces two primary bile acids, cholic acid and chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA). In the classic pathway, the mitochondrial sterol 27-hydroxylase (CYP27A1) catalyzes the steroid side-chain oxidation in both CA and CDCA synthesis. In the alternative pathway, CYP27A1 catalyzes the first step to convert cholesterol to 27-hydroxycholesterol which eventually is converted to CDCA. CTX was first described by
