Cerebrotendinous Xanthomatosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cerebrotendinous, cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis, xanthomatosis, acid, ctx, bile, treatment, patients, clinical, cdca, bile acid, early, synthesis, cholestanol


both CA and CDCA synthesis. In the alternative pathway, CYP27A1 catalyzes the first step to convert cholesterol to 27-hydroxycholesterol which eventually is converted to CDCA. CTX was first described by Van Bogart, Scherer and Epstein in 1937 as a condition characterized by early development of cataracts and large tendon xanthomas and later by progressive neurologic impairment ( 5 , 6 ). The incidence of CTX is estimated to be 3 to 5 per 100,000 people ( 1 , 7 ). The prevalence is estimated to be highest in Asians (1:44,407-93,084), intermediate in Europeans, Americans, and Africans/African Americans (1:70,795-233,597) and lowest in the Finnish population (1:3,388,767) ( 8 ). ETIOLOGY AND PATHOGENESIS Patients with CTX lack mitochondrial sterol 27-hydroxylase, which is an important enzyme in both the alternative and classic bile acid synthesis pathways ( 9 ). The biochemical defect prevents the synthesis of chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA) and cholic acid ( 10 ).The absence of the negative feedback mechanism of CDCA on 7a-hydroxylase, the rate limiting step, leads to the accumulation of cholestanol and its precursor 7α-hydroxy-4-cholesten-3-one ( Figure 1 ) ( 9 - 11 ). Bile acid alcohols are glucoronidated and can be found in significantly increased amounts in blood, urine, and feces of untreated CTX subjects. It has been hypothesized that the increased bile alcohol levels may lead to disruption of the blood–brain barrier (BBB), and that increased permeability of BBB may be caused by circulating bile alcohol glucuronides ( 12 ). Cholestanol and cholesterol accumulate in many tissues, including brain (primarily white matter), leading to progressive neurological dysfunction marked by dementia, spinal cord paresis, and cerebellar ataxia. Deposition in other tissues causes tendon xanthomas, premature atherosclerosis, and cataracts ( 13 ). CLINICAL FEATURES Patients with CTX present diverse manifestations with multi-organ involvement and a broad range of neurological and non-neurological symptoms ( Table 1 ). The clinical manifestations usually start at infancy and develop during the first and second decades of life. Neonatal cholestatic jaundice and infantile-onset diarrhea with failure to thrive may be the earliest clinical manifestation ( 14 - 16 ). Childhood-onset cataracts are a common early symptom, described in 92% patients with CTX. Cataracts precede neurological signs and tendon xanthoma, and if present, are considered useful for early diagnosis ( 14 , 16 , 17 ). Tendon xanthomas have been documented in 71% patients with CTX and can appear in first, second or third decade.
