Cerebrotendinous Xanthomatosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cerebrotendinous, cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis, xanthomatosis, acid, ctx, bile, treatment, patients, clinical, cdca, bile acid, early, synthesis, cholestanol


useful for early diagnosis ( 14 , 16 , 17 ). Tendon xanthomas have been documented in 71% patients with CTX and can appear in first, second or third decade. They are common in Achilles tendon, but can also be seen in fingers, tibial tuberosity, and triceps ( 17 , 18 ). Pes cavus deformity has also been described ( 19 , 20 ). Neurological dysfunction is almost always present in patients with CTX and usually occurs in late adolescents and early adulthood. The range of symptoms are wide and include intellectual disability; dementia; psychiatric symptoms (i.e., behavioral changes, depression, agitation, hallucination, and suicide attempts); pyramidal signs (spasticity, hyperreflexia, extensor plantar responses); cerebellar signs (progressive ataxia, dysarthria); movement disorder (parkinsonism, dystonia, myoclonus, postural tremor); seizures; and peripheral neuropathy ( 1 , 4 , 21 - 23 ). Osteoporosis, heart involvement, and premature atherosclerosis have also been described later in life ( 19 , 24 - 26 ). Table 1. Clinical Features of Cerebrotendinous Xanthomatosis View in own window Early childhood Neonatal cholestatic jaundice Chronic diarrhea Cataracts Developmental Delay Late childhood Tendon xanthomas Psychiatric disorders Adulthood Neurological dysfunction Pyramidal signs (spasticity, hyperreflexia, extensor plantar responses) Cerebellar signs (ataxia, dysarthria) Movement disorder (parkinsonism, dystonia, myoclonus, postural tremor) Seizures Dementia Pes Cavus Osteoporosis Premature atherosclerosis DIAGNOSIS The diagnosis of CTX is mainly based on clinical features, biochemical testing, neuroimaging, and molecular genetic analysis. Since clinical presentation can be variable in type, severity, and timing, diagnosis is often delayed. Patients with CTX include having high plasma cholestanol concentration (five- to ten-fold greater than normal), normal-to-low plasma cholesterol concentration, elevated urine bile alcohol concentration, elevated plasma bile alcohol concentration, decreased CDCA level, and increased levels of cholestanol and apolipoprotein B in cerebrospinal fluid ( 10 , 17 ). Cholesterol concentration in tissue is increased but plasma cholesterol levels are low to normal ( 27 ). Brain MRI features are strongly suggestive of diagnosis and include bilateral hyperintensity of the dentate nuclei, diffuse cerebral and cerebellar atrophy, and white matter signal abnormalities. Brain MRI spectroscopy shows decreased n-acetylaspartate and increased lactate signals, suggestive of widespread axonal damage and cerebral mitochondrial dysfunction ( 20 ). Although not necessary for initiation of treatment, molecular testing provides definitive confirmation of CTX. Various mutations in all nine exons and in introns 2,4,6,7 and 8 of the CYP27A1 gene have been described worldwide ( 8 ). Mignarri et al ( 22
