Cerebrotendinous Xanthomatosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cerebrotendinous, cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis, xanthomatosis, acid, ctx, bile, treatment, patients, clinical, cdca, bile acid, early, synthesis, cholestanol


of CTX. Various mutations in all nine exons and in introns 2,4,6,7 and 8 of the CYP27A1 gene have been described worldwide ( 8 ). Mignarri et al ( 22 ) developed a suspicion index to be used by clinicians to calculate CTX prediction score. They proposed using family history, systemic and neurologic features as diagnostic indicators, classified as very strong (score of 100; e.g., tendon xanthoma or, sibling with CTX); strong (score of 50; e.g., juvenile cataract, chronic diarrhea, prolonged neonatal cholestasis, ataxia, MRI alterations, intellectual disability and/or psychiatric disturbances); or moderate (score of 25; e.g., early osteoporosis, epilepsy, parkinsonism or polyneuropathy. A total score ≥ 100 warrants serum cholestanol assessment, and elevated cholestanol or total score ≥ 200, with one very strong or four strong indicators, warrants CYP27A1 gene analysis ( 22 ). Quantification of bile acid precursor 7α-hydroxy-4-cholesten-3-one has been proposed to be a rapid, convenient diagnostic test for CTX ( 28 ). Early detection of ketosterol bile acid precursors can play important role in early detection through newborn screening ( 29 ). MANAGEMENT Early initiation of oral chenodeoxy-cholic-acid (CDCA) therapy at a dose of 250 mg given 3 times daily for adults and 15 mg/kg/d for children is the treatment of choice for neurological and non-neurological symptoms such as diarrhea ( 30 - 32 ), however it still does not have U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval for CTX. FDA has granted it an orphan drug designation for use in CTX. CDCA has been approved in the European Union to treat adults and children with CTX over 1 month of age. This treatment suppresses synthesis of cholesterol, cholestanol, bile alcohols, and bile acids and alleviates clinical symptoms if started at an early age ( 33 , 34 ); however it has not been shown to improve bone mineral density in affected patients ( 35 ). The treatment is most effective when started early ( 31 ), and patients diagnosed later in life with significant neurological disease may progress despite CDCA therapy. A retrospective cohort study in 79 Dutch patients with CTX showed that the MRI brain remained normal even after 25 year of follow-up treatment if therapy was started in young patients with a normal MRI at diagnosis. Treatment with cholic acid has also been shown to be effective, especially in patients with side effects to CDCA therapy ( 36 , 37 ). HMG-CoA-reductase-inhibitors along with
