Cerebrotendinous Xanthomatosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, cerebrotendinous, cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis, xanthomatosis, acid, ctx, bile, treatment, patients, clinical, cdca, bile acid, early, synthesis, cholestanol


at diagnosis. Treatment with cholic acid has also been shown to be effective, especially in patients with side effects to CDCA therapy ( 36 , 37 ). HMG-CoA-reductase-inhibitors along with CDCA can improve lipoprotein metabolism, inhibit cholesterol synthesis, and reduce plasma levels of cholestanol ( 38 ). Surgical excision of bilateral tendon may worsen the gait imbalance and cannot prevent the deterioration of neurologically affected patients ( 39 ). Lumbreras et al ( 40 ) showed that adeno-associated virus (AAV) vectors expressing CYP27A1 restored bile acid metabolism and normalized the concentration of most bile acids in plasma in a CTX mouse model, making gene therapy a feasible option. SCREENING Screening of all first-degree relatives, when feasible, should be considered as early detection and treatment are the most important aspects for preventing morbidity and mortality ( 41 ). A recent pilot study has also shown promising option of screening for CTX as part of newborn screening ( 42 ). A recent study on de-identified dried blood spots of 20,076 newborns from the 2019 cohort of the biobank of the Dutch newborn screening program (Dutch National Institute for Puublic Health and the Environment, Bilthoven, The Netherlands) showed that metabolite ratios bile alcohol cholestanetetrol glucuronide (GlcA-tetrol)/ tauro-chenodeoxycholic acid (t-CDCA) to be informative biomarker, paving way for introduction of CTX newborn screen ( 43 ). CONCLUSIONS Cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis is a rare autosomal recessive disorder of bile acid metabolism and lipid storage characterized by abnormal deposition of cholestanol and cholesterol in multiple tissues. Clinical manifestations include neonatal cholestatic jaundice, infantile-onset diarrhea with failure to thrive, childhood-onset cataracts, tendon xanthomas, and progressive neurological dysfunction including intellectual disability, dementia, and psychiatric symptoms. Treatment with CDCA is treatment of choice, however cholic acid, HMG-Co-A reductase inhibitors, and surgical excision also play a role in management. Timely detection and treatment are the key to prevent severe morbidity and mortality in these patients. REFERENCES 1. Salen G, Steiner RD. Epidemiology, diagnosis, and treatment of cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis (CTX). J Inherit Metab Dis. 2017; 40 :771–781. [ PubMed : 28980151 ] 2. Chen C, Zhang Y, Wu H, Sun YM, Cai YH, Wu JJ, Wang J, Gong LY, Ding ZT. Clinical and molecular genetic features of cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis patients in Chinese families. Metab Brain Dis. 2017; 32 :1609–1618. [ PubMed : 28623566 ] 3. Gallus GN, Dotti MT, Federico A. Clinical and molecular diagnosis of cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis with a review of the
