TYPECaseReport
KEYWORDS: hepatocellular, it-lbp, carcinoma, t-lymphoblastic, lymphoma, proliferation, hepatocellular carcinoma, case, fibrolamellar, tumor, hepatocytes, cells, leukemia, indolent, lymphocytes


liver tumors, hepatocellular adenoma cut section is soft and uniform, although necrosis, heamorhage, or fibrosis are frequent. The margins of the lesion are ambiguous, grossly and microscopically with little or no fibrous capsule. Microscopically, hepatocellular adenoma is composed of benign hepatocytes arranged in regular plates, usually one or most two cell thick. Tumour hepatocytes have normal cytoplasm, clear cytoplasm, Steatotic cell, or contain pigment. Nuclear and mitoses are rare. Hepatocellularadenomaparenchymahasisolatedarterieswithout bile ducts or multifocal lymphocyte infiltration. TdT-positive lymphocytes are absent in normal liver. The nature of the TdT- positiveTlymphocytesinfiltratingthetumorinthiscaseisunclear. Giventherarityofthisco-occurrence,furtherstudiesareneededto determinewhetherthereisacorrelation. There is currently a need to differentiate iT-LBP from T-lymphoblastic lymphoma/leukemia. In this case, the immunophenotype of multifocal clusters of proliferating lymphocytes showed T lymphocytes, and IHC was unable to distinguishTlymphoblasticlymphoma/leukemia.Becausethe iT-LBP immunophenotype overlaps with T lymphoblastic lymphoma/leukemia expression, and both have high Ki-67 proliferation index expression, we were prompted to consider that this case is T-lymphoblastic lymphoma/ leukemia with fibrolamellar hepatocellular carcinoma. However, comparing the two morphologies, T-lymphoblastic lymphoma/leukemia is an aggressive tumor composed of medium-sized blast cells that progress very rapidly when left untreated. In contrast, iT-LBP lymphocytes were small, with little cytoplasm, round basophilic nuclei, fine chromatin, indistinct nucleoli, infrequent mitoses, no cellular atypia, and an indolent clinical course. The patient underwent bone marrow biopsy, with no lymphoma cell infiltration found. The course of disease and the diagnostic criteria proposed by Ohgami et al. can also help us in its diagnosis by distinguishing it from T lymphoblastic lymphoma. In this case, there are many small B lymphocytes surrounding T cells, and lymphoid follicle formation was observed. Reactive hyperplasia and small B cell-derived lymphoma should also be distinguished in differential diagnosis. All the molecular studies on iT-LBP reported in the FIGURE3 literature have confirmed that there is no clonal T-cell ImmunohistochemicalexpressionofFibrolamellar receptor (TCR) gene rearrangement [2–7]. Polymerase hepatocellularcarcinoma.(A)HepPer-1.(B)Arginase-1.(C) chain reaction analysis of this patient showed no CD34microvascularization.(D)FocalandscatteredCK7,original magnification×100. monoclonal T-cell proliferation. Therefore, T lymphoblastic lymphoma/leukemia was excluded. Pathology&OncologyResearch 04 PublishedbyFrontiers Hanetal. FIGURE4 Immunohistochemicalexpressionofsmalllymphocyticcellsofuniform,LymphoidcellsexpressTcellmarkers,including(A)CD3,(B)CD5,(C) CD43,(D)TDT,(E)highlyexpressKi-67and(F)CD20negative,originalmagnification×200. Todate,WangandShinEunhavereportedthatiT- Nine months have passed since surgical resection, but the LBPcombinedwithhepatocellularcarcinomamaybesourcesof patientremainswellandhasshownnotumorrecurrence,with immature T cells. Wang suggested that HCC may recruit CTscansrevealingnodevelopmentoflymphoblasticlymphoma, immature T lymphocytes from the thymic cortex or bone and peripheral bloodtests showno signofleukemia. marrow into the tumor by some unknown mechanism. Shin Indolent T-lymphoblastic proliferation combined with Eun suggested that certain cytokines produced by HCC- hepatocellular carcinoma has been reported in the literature to have transformed hepatocytes may stimulate the
