Introduction to Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, apo, hdl, ldl, particles, pubmed, liver, levels, lipoprotein, free, vldl, receptor, chylomicrons, lipoproteins, article


and infectious and inflammatory states. These small dense LDL particles are considered to be more pro-atherogenic than large LDL particles for a number of reasons ( 8 ). Small dense LDL particles have a decreased affinity for the LDL receptor resulting in a prolonged retention time in the circulation. Additionally, they more easily enter the arterial wall and bind more avidly to intra-arterial proteoglycans, which traps them in the arterial wall. Finally, small dense LDL particles are more susceptible to oxidation, which could result in an enhanced uptake by macrophages. High-Density Lipoproteins (HDL) ( 9-11 ) These particles play an important role in reverse cholesterol transport from peripheral tissues to the liver, which is one potential mechanism by which HDL may be anti-atherogenic. In addition, HDL particles have anti-oxidant, anti-inflammatory, anti-thrombotic, and anti-apoptotic properties, which may also contribute to their ability to inhibit atherosclerosis. HDL particles are enriched in cholesterol and phospholipids. Apolipoproteins A-I, A-II, A-IV, C-I, C-II, C-III, and E are associated with these particles. Apo A-I is the core structural protein and each HDL particle may contain multiple Apo A-I molecules. In addition, using mass spectrometry proteins involved in proteinase inhibition, complement activation, and the acute-phase response have been found associated with HDL particles ( 12 ). HDL particles are very heterogeneous and can be classified based on density, size, charge, or apolipoprotein composition ( Table 2 ). Table 2. Classification of HDL View in own window Method of classification Types of HDL Density gradient ultracentrifugation HDL 2 , HDL 3 , very high-density HDL Nuclear magnetic resonance large, medium, and small Gradient gel electrophoresis HDL 2a, 2b, 3a, 3b, 3c 2-dimensional gel electrophoresis pre-beta 1 and 2, alpha 1, 2, 3, 4 Apolipoprotein composition A-I particles, A-I: A-II particles, A-I: E particles Lipoprotein (a) (Lp (a)) ( 13-16 ) Lp (a) is an LDL particle that has apolipoprotein (a) attached to Apo B-100 via a disulfide bond. Lp (a) contain Apo (a) and Apo B-100 in a 1:1 molar ratio. The size of Lp(a) particles can vary greatly based on the size of apolipoprotein (a). This particle is pro-atherogenic. APOLIPOPROTEINS ( 17 , 18 ) Apolipoproteins have four major functions including 1) serving a structural role, 2) acting as ligands for lipoprotein receptors, 3) guiding the formation of lipoproteins, and 4) serving as activators or inhibitors of enzymes involved in the metabolism of lipoproteins ( Table 3
