Introduction to Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, apo, hdl, ldl, particles, pubmed, liver, levels, lipoprotein, free, vldl, receptor, chylomicrons, lipoproteins, article


acting as ligands for lipoprotein receptors, 3) guiding the formation of lipoproteins, and 4) serving as activators or inhibitors of enzymes involved in the metabolism of lipoproteins ( Table 3 ). Apolipoproteins thus play a crucial role in lipoprotein metabolism. Apolipoprotein A-I ( 19 ) Apo A-I is synthesized in the liver and intestine and is the major structural protein of HDL accounting for approximately 70% of HDL protein. It also plays a role in the interaction of HDL with ATP-binding cassette protein A1 (ABCA1), ABCG1, and class B, type I scavenger receptor (SR-B1). Apo A-I is an activator of lecithin: cholesterol acyltransferase (LCAT), an enzyme that converts free cholesterol into cholesteryl ester. High levels of Apo A-I are associated with a decreased risk of atherosclerosis. Apolipoprotein A-II ( 20 ) Apo A-II is synthesized in the liver and is the second most abundant protein on HDL accounting for approximately 20% of HDL protein. The role of Apo A-II in lipid metabolism is unclear. Apo A-II is a strong predictor of risk for CVD. Apolipoprotein A-IV ( 21 ) Apo A-IV is synthesized in the intestine during fat absorption. Apo A-IV is associated with chylomicrons and high-density lipoproteins, but is also found in the lipoprotein-free fraction. Its precise role in lipoprotein metabolism remains to be determined but studies have suggested a role for Apo A-IV in regulating food intake. Apolipoprotein A-V ( 22 , 23 ) Apo A-V is synthesized in the liver and associates with triglyceride rich lipoproteins. It is an activator of LPL mediated lipolysis and thereby plays an important role in the metabolism of triglyceride rich lipoproteins. Apolipoprotein B-48 ( 24 ) Apo B-48 is synthesized in the intestine and is the major structural protein of chylomicrons and chylomicron remnants. There is a single molecule of apo B-48 per chylomicron particle. There is a single apolipoprotein B gene that is expressed in both the liver and intestine. The intestine expresses a protein that is approximately ½ the size of the liver due to mRNA editing. The apobec-1 editing complex is expressed in the intestine and edits a specific cytidine to an uracil in the apo B mRNA in the intestine creating a stop codon that results in the cessation of protein translation and a shorter Apo B (Apo B-48). The portion of Apo-B that is recognized by the LDL receptor is not contained in Apo-B48 and therefore
