Introduction to Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, apo, hdl, ldl, particles, pubmed, liver, levels, lipoprotein, free, vldl, receptor, chylomicrons, lipoproteins, article


the cessation of protein translation and a shorter Apo B (Apo B-48). The portion of Apo-B that is recognized by the LDL receptor is not contained in Apo-B48 and therefore Apo B-48 is not recognized by the LDL receptor. Apolipoprotein B-100 Apo B-100 is synthesized in the liver and is the major structural component of VLDL, IDL, and LDL. There is a single molecule of Apo B-100 per VLDL, IDL, LDL and Lp(a) particle. Apo B-100 is a ligand for the LDL receptor and therefore plays an important role in the clearance of lipoprotein particles. Certain mutations in Apo B-100 result in decreased binding to the LDL receptor and familial hypercholesterolemia ( 25 ). High levels of Apo B-100 are associated with an increased risk of atherosclerosis. Apolipoprotein C ( 26-29 ) The C apolipoproteins are synthesized primarily in the liver and freely exchange between lipoprotein particles and therefore are found in association with chylomicrons, VLDL, and HDL. Apo C-II is a co-factor for lipoprotein lipase (LPL) and thus stimulates triglyceride hydrolysis and the clearance of triglyceride rich lipoproteins ( 26 , 29 ). Loss of function mutations in Apo C-II result in marked hypertriglyceridemia due to a failure to metabolize triglyceride rich lipoproteins ( 30 ). Apo C-III is an inhibitor of LPL ( 31 ). Additionally, Apo C-III inhibits the interaction of triglyceride rich lipoproteins with their receptors ( 31 ). Recent studies have shown that loss of function mutations in Apo C-III lead to decreases in serum triglyceride levels and a reduced risk of cardiovascular disease. Interestingly, inhibition of Apo C-III expression results in a decrease in serum triglyceride levels even in patients deficient in lipoprotein lipase indicating that the ability of Apo C-III to modulate serum triglyceride levels is not dependent solely on regulating lipoprotein lipase activity ( 32 ). Apolipoprotein E ( 33 ) Apolipoprotein E is synthesized in many tissues but the liver and intestine are the primary source of circulating Apo E. Apo E exchanges between lipoprotein particles and is associated with chylomicrons, chylomicron remnants, VLDL, IDL, and a subgroup of HDL particles. There are three common genetic variants of Apo E (Apo E2, E3, and E4). ApoE2 differs from the most common isoform, Apo E3, by a single amino acid substitution where cysteine substitutes for arginine at residue 158. Apo E4 differs from Apo E3 at residue 112, where arginine substitutes for
