Introduction to Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, apo, hdl, ldl, particles, pubmed, liver, levels, lipoprotein, free, vldl, receptor, chylomicrons, lipoproteins, article


and IDL, which occurs via endocytosis ( Figure 3 ). After internalization, the lipoprotein particle is degraded in lysosomes and the cholesterol is released. The delivery of cholesterol to the cell decreases the activity of HMGCoA reductase and other enzymes required for the biosynthesis of cholesterol, and the expression of LDL receptors. LDL receptors in the liver play a major role in determining plasma LDL levels (a low number of receptors is associated with high plasma LDL levels while a high number of hepatic LDL receptors is associated with low plasma LDL levels). The number of LDL receptors is regulated by the cholesterol content of the cell ( 35 ). When cellular cholesterol levels are decreased the transcription factor SREBP is transported from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi where proteases cleave and activate SREBP, which then migrates to the nucleus and stimulates the expression of LDL receptors ( Figure 4 ). Conversely, when cellular cholesterol levels are high SREBP remains in the endoplasmic reticulum in an inactive form and the expression of LDL receptors is low. As discussed later PCSK9 regulates the rate of degradation of LDL receptors. Figure 3. LDL Receptor Pathway (figure modified from Annual Review of Biochemistry 46: 897, 1977). Figure 4. SREBP Pathway (figure modified from Journal of Lipid Research 50: Supp S15, 2009). LDL Receptor Related Protein 1 (LRP-1) ( 36 ) LRP-1 is a member of the LDL receptor family. It is expressed in multiple tissues including the liver. LRP-1 recognizes Apo E and mediates the uptake of chylomicron remnants and IDL (VLDL remnants). VLDL Receptor ( 37 ) The VLDL receptor is a member of the LDL receptor family. The VLDLR is expressed in the heart, skeletal muscle, adipose tissue, endothelium, brain, macrophages, and other tissues. Interestingly it is not usually expressed in the liver but hepatic expression can be induced by endoplasmic reticulum stress and PPAR alpha activation. Apo E but not Apo B bind to the VLDL receptor thereby allowing for the uptake of triglyceride rich lipoprotein particles (VLDL and chylomicrons). Class B Scavenger Receptor B1 (SR-B1) ( 38 ) SR-B1 is expressed in the liver, adrenal glands, ovaries, testes, macrophages, and other cells. In the liver and steroid producing cells, it mediates the selective uptake of cholesterol esters from HDL particles. In macrophages and other cells, it facilitates the efflux of cholesterol from the cell to HDL particles. ATP-Binding
