Introduction to Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, apo, hdl, ldl, particles, pubmed, liver, levels, lipoprotein, free, vldl, receptor, chylomicrons, lipoproteins, article


cells, it mediates the selective uptake of cholesterol esters from HDL particles. In macrophages and other cells, it facilitates the efflux of cholesterol from the cell to HDL particles. ATP-Binding Cassette Transporter A1 (ABCA1) ( 39 ) ABCA1 is expressed in many cells including hepatocytes, enterocytes, and macrophages. It mediates the transport of cholesterol and phospholipids from the cell to lipid poor HDL particles (pre-beta-HDL). ATP-Binding Cassette Transporter G1 (ABCG1) ( 40 ) ABCG1 is expressed in many different cell types and mediates the efflux of cholesterol from the cell to HDL particles. ATP-Binding Cassette Transporter G5 and G8 (ABCG5/ABCG8) ( 41 , 42 ) ABCG5 and ABCG8 are expressed in the liver and intestine and form a heterodimer. In the intestine, these transporters mediate the movement of plant sterols and cholesterol from inside the enterocyte into the intestinal lumen thereby decreasing the absorption of cholesterol and limiting the uptake of dietary plant sterols. In the liver, these transporters play a role in the movement of cholesterol and plant sterols into the bile facilitating the excretion of sterols. Niemann-Pick C1-Like 1 (NPC1L1) ( 41 ) NPC1L1 is expressed in the intestine and mediates the uptake of cholesterol and plant sterols from the intestinal lumen into the enterocyte. NPC1L1 is also expressed in the liver where it mediates the movement of cholesterol from hepatocytes into the bile. ENZYMES AND TRANSFER PROTEINS INVOLVED IN LIPOPROTEIN METABOLISM There are several enzymes and transfer proteins that play a key role in lipoprotein metabolism. Lipoprotein Lipase (LPL) ( 43 ) LPL is synthesized in muscle, heart, and adipose tissue, then secreted and attached to the endothelium of the adjacent blood capillaries. This enzyme hydrolyzes the triglycerides carried in chylomicrons and VLDL to fatty acids, which can be taken up by cells. The catabolism of triglycerides results in the conversion of chylomicrons into chylomicron remnants and VLDL into IDL (VLDL remnants). This enzyme requires Apo C-II as a cofactor. Apo A-V also plays a key role in the activation of this enzyme. In contrast Apo C-III and Apo A-II inhibit the activity of LPL. Insulin stimulates LPL expression and LPL activity is reduced in patients with poorly controlled diabetes, which can impair the metabolism of triglyceride rich lipoproteins leading to hypertriglyceridemia ( 44 ). Hepatic Lipase ( 45 ) Hepatic lipase is localized to the sinusoidal surface of liver cells. It mediates the hydrolysis of triglycerides
