Introduction to Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, apo, hdl, ldl, particles, pubmed, liver, levels, lipoprotein, free, vldl, receptor, chylomicrons, lipoproteins, article


rich lipoproteins leading to hypertriglyceridemia ( 44 ). Hepatic Lipase ( 45 ) Hepatic lipase is localized to the sinusoidal surface of liver cells. It mediates the hydrolysis of triglycerides and phospholipids in IDL and LDL leading to smaller particles (IDL is converted to LDL; LDL is converted from large LDL to small LDL). It also mediates the hydrolysis of triglycerides and phospholipids in HDL resulting in smaller HDL particles. Endothelial Lipase ( 46 ) Endothelial lipase plays a major role in hydrolyzing the phospholipids in HDL. Lecithin: Cholesterol Acyltransferase (LCAT) ( 47 ) LCAT is made in the liver. In the plasma, it catalyzes the synthesis of cholesterol esters in HDL by facilitating the transfer of a fatty acid from position 2 of lecithin to cholesterol. This allows for the transfer of the cholesterol from the surface of the HDL particle (free cholesterol) to the core of the HDL particle (cholesterol ester), which facilitates the continued uptake of free cholesterol by HDL particles by reducing the concentration of cholesterol on the surface of HDL. Cholesteryl Ester Transfer Protein (CETP) ( 48 , 49 ) This protein is synthesized in the liver and in the plasma mediates the transfer of cholesterol esters from HDL to VLDL, chylomicrons, and LDL and the transfer of triglycerides from VLDL and chylomicrons to HDL. Inhibition of CETP activity leads to an increase in HDL cholesterol and a decrease in LDL cholesterol. Microsomal Triglyceride Transfer Protein (MTTP) ( 50 ) MTTP is expressed primarily in the liver and small intestine and plays a crucial role in the synthesis of lipoproteins in these tissues. MTTP mediates the transfer of triglycerides to apolipoprotein B-100 in the liver to form VLDL and to apolipoprotein B-48 in the intestine to form chylomicrons. EXOGENOUS LIPOPROTEIN PATHWAY (CHYLOMICRONS) Figure 5. Exogenous Lipoprotein Pathway. Fat Absorption ( 51-54 ) The exogenous lipoprotein pathway starts in the intestine. Dietary triglycerides (approximately 100 grams per day) are hydrolyzed to free fatty acids and monoacylglycerol by intestinal lipases and emulsified with bile acids, cholesterol, plant sterols, and fat-soluble vitamins to form micelles. While the fatty acids in the intestine are overwhelmingly accounted for by dietary intake the cholesterol in the intestinal lumen is primarily derived from bile (approximately 800-1200mg of cholesterol from bile vs. 200-500mg from diet). Plant sterols account for approximately 25% of dietary sterol intake (approximately 100-150mg/day). The cholesterol, plant sterols, fatty acids,
