Introduction to Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, apo, hdl, ldl, particles, pubmed, liver, levels, lipoprotein, free, vldl, receptor, chylomicrons, lipoproteins, article


from bile (approximately 800-1200mg of cholesterol from bile vs. 200-500mg from diet). Plant sterols account for approximately 25% of dietary sterol intake (approximately 100-150mg/day). The cholesterol, plant sterols, fatty acids, monoacylglycerol, and fat-soluble vitamins contained in the micelles are then transported into the intestinal cells. The uptake of cholesterol and plant sterols from the intestinal lumen into intestinal cells is facilitated by a sterol transporter, Niemann-Pick C1- like 1 protein (NPC1L1) ( Figure 6 ). Ezetimibe, a drug which inhibits intestinal cholesterol and plant sterol uptake, binds to NPC1L1 and inhibits its activity. Once in the intestinal cell the cholesterol and plant sterols may be transported back into the intestinal lumen, a process mediated by ABCG5 and ABCG8, or converted to sterol esters by acyl-CoA cholesterol acyl transferase (ACAT), which attaches a fatty acid to the sterol. Compared to cholesterol, plant sterols are poor substrates for ACAT and therefore the formation of plant sterol esters does not occur as efficiently as the formation of cholesterol esters. In humans, <5% of dietary plant sterols are absorbed and the vast majority are transported out of the intestine cell, a process mediated by ABCG5 and ABCG8, which are very efficient at effluxing plant sterols from the intestinal cell into the intestinal lumen. Patients with sitosterolemia have mutations in either ABCG5 or ABCG8 and net absorption of dietary plant sterols is increased (20-30% absorbed vs. < 5% in normal subjects) ( 55 ). Thus, ABCG5 and ABCG8 along with ACAT serve as gate keepers and block the uptake of plant sterols and likely also play an important role in determining the efficiency of cholesterol absorption (humans typically absorb only approximately 50% of dietary cholesterol with a range of 25-75%). Figure 6. Intestinal Cell and Sterol Metabolism. C= cholesterol, CE= cholesterol ester. The pathway of absorption of free fatty acids is not well understood but it is likely that both passive diffusion and specific transporters play a role. The fatty acid transporter CD36 is strongly expressed in the proximal third of the intestine and is localized to the villi. While this transporter likely plays a role in fatty acid uptake by intestinal cells, this transporter is not essential as humans and mice deficient in this protein do not have fat malabsorption. However, in mice deficient in CD36 there is a shift in the absorption of lipid to the distal intestine, suggesting pathways that can compensate
