Introduction to Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, apo, hdl, ldl, particles, pubmed, liver, levels, lipoprotein, free, vldl, receptor, chylomicrons, lipoproteins, article


protein do not have fat malabsorption. However, in mice deficient in CD36 there is a shift in the absorption of lipid to the distal intestine, suggesting pathways that can compensate for the absence of CD36. Fatty acid transport protein 4 (FATP4) is also highly expressed in the intestine. However, mice deficient in FATP4 do not have abnormalities in fat absorption. It is likely that there are multiple pathways for the absorption of fatty acids into intestinal cells. The pathways by which monoacylglycerols are absorbed by intestinal cells remain to be defined. Formation of Chylomicrons ( 51 , 54 ) The absorbed fatty acids and monoacylglycerols are utilized to synthesize triglycerides. The key enzymes required for triglyceride synthesis are monoacylglycerol acyltransferase (MGAT) and diacylglycerol transferase (DGAT). MGAT catalyzes the addition of a fatty acid to monoacylglycerol while DGAT catalyzes the addition of a fatty acid to diacylglycerol resulting in triglyceride formation. As noted above, the majority of the cholesterol absorbed by the intestine is esterified to cholesterol esters by ACAT. The triglycerides and cholesterol esters are packaged into chylomicrons in the endoplasmic reticulum. The size and composition of the chylomicrons formed in the intestine are dependent on the amount of fat ingested and absorbed by the intestine and the type of fat absorbed. Increased fat absorption results in larger chylomicrons. The formation of chylomicrons in the endoplasmic reticulum requires the synthesis of Apo B-48 by the intestinal cell ( Figure 6 ). Microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTTP) is required for the movement of lipid from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Apo B-48. The absence of MTTP results in the inability to form chylomicrons (Abetalipoproteinemia) ( 56 ). Lomitapide inhibits MTTP function and is used to treat patients with homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia ( 57 ). Chylomicron Metabolism ( 26 , 31 , 43 , 58-62 ) Chylomicrons are secreted into the lymph and delivered via the thoracic duct to the circulation. It should be noted that this results in the newly formed chylomicrons being delivered to the systemic circulation and not delivered directly to the liver via the portal circulation. This facilitates the delivery of the nutrients contained in the chylomicrons to muscle and adipose tissue. In muscle and adipose tissue lipoprotein lipase (LPL) is expressed at high levels. LPL is synthesized in muscle and adipocytes and transported to the luminal surface of capillaries. Lipase maturation factor 1 plays a key role
