Introduction to Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, apo, hdl, ldl, particles, pubmed, liver, levels, lipoprotein, free, vldl, receptor, chylomicrons, lipoproteins, article


lipase (LPL) is expressed at high levels. LPL is synthesized in muscle and adipocytes and transported to the luminal surface of capillaries. Lipase maturation factor 1 plays a key role in the stabilization and movement of LPL from muscle cells and adipocytes to the capillary endothelial cell surface. Glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchored high density lipoprotein binding protein 1 (GPIHBP1) binds LPL and transports it to the capillary lumen and anchors LPL to the capillary endothelium. Activation of LPL by Apo C-II, carried on the chylomicrons, leads to the hydrolysis of the triglycerides that are carried in the chylomicrons resulting in the formation of free fatty acids, which can be taken up by the adjacent muscle cells and adipocytes for either energy production or storage. Fatty acid transport proteins (FATPs) and CD36 facilitate the uptake of fatty acids into adipocytes and muscle cells. Some of the free fatty acids released from chylomicrons bind to albumin and can be transported to other tissues. Apo A-V also plays an important role in activating LPL activity. Loss of function mutations in LPL, Apo C-II, GPIHPB1, lipase maturation factor 1, and Apo A-V can result in marked hypertriglyceridemia (familial chylomicronemia syndrome) ( 30 ). In addition, there are proteins that inhibit LPL activity. Apo C-III inhibits LPL activity and loss of function mutations in this gene are associated with increases in LPL activity and decreases in plasma triglyceride levels. Similarly, angiopoietin like protein 3 and 4, which target LPL for inactivation, regulate LPL activity. Loss of function mutations in these proteins also are associated with decreases in plasma triglyceride levels. Finally, the expression of LPL by muscle cells and adipocytes is regulated by hormones (particularly insulin), nutritional status, and inflammation. The metabolism of the triglycerides carried in the chylomicrons results in a marked decrease in the size of these particles leading to the formation of chylomicron remnants, which are enriched in cholesterol esters and acquire Apo E. As these particles decrease in size phospholipids and apolipoproteins (Apo A and C) on the surface of the chylomicrons are transferred to other lipoproteins, mainly HDL. The transfer of Apo C-II from chylomicrons to HDL decreases the ability of LPL to further breakdown triglycerides. These chylomicron remnants are cleared from the circulation by the liver. The Apo E on the chylomicron remnants binds to the LDL receptor and other hepatic receptors such as LRP and syndecan-4 and the entire particle
