Introduction to Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, apo, hdl, ldl, particles, pubmed, liver, levels, lipoprotein, free, vldl, receptor, chylomicrons, lipoproteins, article


the circulation by the liver. The Apo E on the chylomicron remnants binds to the LDL receptor and other hepatic receptors such as LRP and syndecan-4 and the entire particle is taken up by the hepatocytes. Apo E is crucial for this process and mutations in Apo E (for example homozygosity for the Apo E2 isoform) can result in decreased chylomicron clearance and elevations in plasma cholesterol and triglyceride levels (familial dysbetalipoproteinemia) ( 30 ). The exogenous lipoprotein pathway results in the efficient transfer of dietary fatty acids to muscle and adipose tissue for energy utilization and storage. The cholesterol is delivered to the liver where it can be utilized for the formation of VLDL, bile acids, or secreted back to the intestine via secretion into the bile. In normal individuals, this pathway can handle large amounts of fat (100 grams or more per day) without resulting in marked increases in plasma triglyceride levels. In fact, in a normal individual, a meal containing 75 grams of fat results in only a very modest increase in postprandial triglyceride levels. ENDOGENOUS LIPOPROTEIN PATHWAY (VLDL AND LDL) Figure 7. Endogenous Lipoprotein Pathway. Formation of VLDL ( 50 , 63 , 64 ) In the liver triglycerides and cholesterol esters are transferred in the endoplasmic reticulum to newly synthesized Apo B-100. Similar to the intestine this transfer is mediated by MTTP. The availability of triglycerides is the primary determinant of the rate of VLDL synthesis. If the supply of triglyceride is limited the newly synthesized Apo B is rapidly degraded. Thus, in contrast to many proteins the rate of synthesis of the Apo B-100 is not the major determinant of the rate of secretion. Rather the amount of lipid available determines whether Apo B-100 is degraded or secreted. MTTP is required for the early addition of lipid to Apo B-100 particles but additional lipid is added via pathways that do not require MTTP. Additionally, the size of the VLDL particles is determined by the availability of triglycerides. When triglycerides are abundant the VLDL particles are large. The quantity of fatty acids available for the synthesis of triglycerides is the main determinant of triglyceride synthesis in the liver. The major sources of fatty acids are a) de novo fatty acid synthesis, b) the hepatic uptake of triglyceride rich lipoproteins, and c) the flux of fatty acids from adipose tissue to the liver. Diabetes, obesity, and
