Introduction to Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, apo, hdl, ldl, particles, pubmed, liver, levels, lipoprotein, free, vldl, receptor, chylomicrons, lipoproteins, article


a) de novo fatty acid synthesis, b) the hepatic uptake of triglyceride rich lipoproteins, and c) the flux of fatty acids from adipose tissue to the liver. Diabetes, obesity, and the metabolic syndrome are common causes of an increase in hepatic triglyceride levels and the increased secretion of VLDL ( 44 , 65 ). Loss of function mutations in either Apo B-100 or MTTP result in the failure to produce VLDL and marked decreases in plasma triglyceride and cholesterol levels (familial hypobetalipoproteinemia or abetalipoproteinemia) ( 56 ). The precise pathway by which the newly synthesized VLDL particles are secreted from the hepatocyte into the circulation is not resolved. VLDL Metabolism ( 6 , 58 ) VLDL particles are transported to peripheral tissues where the triglycerides are hydrolyzed by LPL and fatty acids are released. This process is very similar to that described above for chylomicrons and there is competition between the metabolism of chylomicrons and VLDL. High levels of chylomicrons can inhibit the clearance of VLDL. The removal of triglycerides from VLDL results in the formation of VLDL remnants (Intermediate density lipoproteins (IDL)). These IDL particles are relatively enriched in cholesterol esters and acquire Apo E from HDL particles. In a pathway analogous to the removal of chylomicron remnants these IDL particles can be removed from the circulation by the liver via binding of Apo E to LDL and LRP receptors. However, while the vast majority of chylomicron remnants are rapidly cleared from the circulation by the liver, only a fraction of IDL particles are cleared (approximately 50% but varies). The remaining triglycerides in the IDL particles are hydrolyzed by hepatic lipase leading to a further decrease in triglyceride content and the exchangeable apolipoproteins are transferred from the IDL particles to other lipoproteins leading to the formation of LDL. These LDL particles predominantly contain cholesterol esters and Apo B-100. Thus, LDL is a product of VLDL metabolism. LDL Metabolism ( 34 , 66-69 ) The levels of plasma LDL are determined by the rate of LDL production and the rate of LDL clearance, both of which are regulated by the number of LDL receptors in the liver. The production rate of LDL from VLDL is partially determined by hepatic LDL receptor activity with a high LDL receptor activity resulting in a decrease in LDL production due to an increase in IDL uptake. Conversely, low LDL receptor activity results in an
