Introduction to Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, apo, hdl, ldl, particles, pubmed, liver, levels, lipoprotein, free, vldl, receptor, chylomicrons, lipoproteins, article


receptor activity with a high LDL receptor activity resulting in a decrease in LDL production due to an increase in IDL uptake. Conversely, low LDL receptor activity results in an increase in LDL production formation due to a decrease in IDL uptake. With regards to LDL clearance, approximately 70% of circulating LDL is cleared via hepatocyte LDL receptor mediated endocytosis with the remainder taken up by extrahepatic tissues. An increase in the number of hepatic LDL receptors therefore increases LDL clearance leading to a decrease in plasma LDL levels. Conversely, a decrease in hepatic LDL receptors slows LDL clearance leading to an increase in plasma LDL levels. Thus, the level of hepatic LDL receptors plays a key role in regulating plasma LDL levels. Many of the drugs used to lower plasma LDL levels, such as the statins, ezetimibe, PCSK9 inhibitors, bile acid sequestrants and bempedoic acid lower plasma LDL levels by increasing the number of hepatic LDL receptors ( 57 ). The levels of LDL receptors in the liver are mainly regulated by the cholesterol content of the hepatocyte. As cholesterol levels in the cell decrease, inactive sterol regulatory element binding proteins (SREBPs), which are transcription factors that mediate the expression of LDL receptors and key genes involved in cholesterol and fatty acid metabolism, are transported from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi where proteases cleave the SREBPs into active transcription factors ( Figure 4 ). These active SREBPs move to the nucleus where they stimulate the transcription of the LDL receptor and enzymes required for cholesterol synthesis, including HMG-CoA reductase, the rate limiting enzyme in cholesterol synthesis. If cholesterol levels in the cell are high, then the SREBPs remain in the endoplasmic reticulum in an inactive form and do not stimulate LDL receptor synthesis. In addition, cholesterol in the cell is oxidized and oxidized sterols activate LXR, a nuclear hormone receptor that is a transcription factor, which stimulates the transcription of E3 ubiquitin ligase that mediates the ubiquitination and degradation of the low-density lipoprotein receptor (Inducible degrader of the low-density lipoprotein receptor (IDOL)). Thus, the cell can sense the availability of cholesterol and regulate LDL receptor activity. If the cholesterol content of the cell is decreased LDL receptor activity is increased to allow for the increased uptake of cholesterol. Conversely, if the cholesterol content of the cell is increased LDL receptor activity is decreased and the uptake of LDL
