Introduction to Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, apo, hdl, ldl, particles, pubmed, liver, levels, lipoprotein, free, vldl, receptor, chylomicrons, lipoproteins, article


is increased to allow for the increased uptake of cholesterol. Conversely, if the cholesterol content of the cell is increased LDL receptor activity is decreased and the uptake of LDL by the cell is diminished. Statins, ezetimibe, bile acid sequestrants, and bempedoic acid decrease hepatic cholesterol levels thereby increasing LDL receptor levels and decreasing plasma LDL levels ( 57 ). Finally, the LDL receptor is targeted for degradation by PCSK9, a secreted protein that binds to the LDL receptor and enhances LDL receptor degradation in the lysosomes. Loss of function mutations in PCSK9 and drugs that inhibit PCSK9 result in increased LDL receptor activity and decreased LDL levels while gain of function mutations in PCSK9 lead to decreased LDL receptor activity and elevations in LDL levels. Thus, the endogenous lipoprotein pathway facilitates the movement of triglycerides synthesized in the liver to muscle and adipose tissue. Additionally, it also provides a pathway for the transport of cholesterol from the liver to peripheral tissues. HDL METABOLISM AND REVERSE CHOLESTEROL TRANSPORT ( 38-40 , 47 , 48 , 70 , 71 ) Figure 8. HDL Metabolism. HDL Formation Several steps are required to generate mature HDL particles. The first step involves the synthesis of the main structural protein contained in HDL, Apo A-I. Apo A-I is synthesized predominantly by the liver and intestine. After Apo A-I is secreted, it acquires cholesterol and phospholipids that are effluxed from hepatocytes and enterocytes. The efflux of cholesterol and phospholipids to the newly synthesized lipid poor Apo A-I (pre-beta HDL) is facilitated by ABCA1. Patients with loss of function mutations in ABCA1 (Tangiers disease) fail to lipidate the newly secreted Apo A-I leading to the rapid catabolism of Apo A-I and very low HDL levels ( 72 ). Using mice with targeted knock-out of ABCA1 it has been shown that HDL cholesterol levels are reduced by 80% in mice lacking ABCA1 in the liver and 30% in mice lacking ABCA1 in the intestine. While initially cholesterol and phospholipids are obtained from the liver and intestine, HDL also acquires lipid from other tissues and from other lipoproteins. Muscle cells, adipocytes, and other tissues express ABCA1 and ABCG1 and are able to transfer cholesterol and phospholipids to Apo A-I particles. Additionally, as noted above, newly formed HDL can also obtain cholesterol and phospholipids from chylomicrons and VLDL during their lipolysis by LPL. This accounts for the observation that patients
