Introduction to Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, apo, hdl, ldl, particles, pubmed, liver, levels, lipoprotein, free, vldl, receptor, chylomicrons, lipoproteins, article


particles. Additionally, as noted above, newly formed HDL can also obtain cholesterol and phospholipids from chylomicrons and VLDL during their lipolysis by LPL. This accounts for the observation that patients with high plasma triglyceride levels due to decreased clearance frequently have low HDL cholesterol levels. Additionally, phospholipid transfer protein (PLTP) facilitates the movement of phospholipids between lipoproteins; mice lacking PLTP have a marked reduction in HDL cholesterol and Apo A-I levels. Finally, the lipolysis of triglyceride rich lipoproteins also results in the transfer of apolipoproteins from these particles to HDL. HDL Cholesterol Esterification As noted earlier the cholesterol in the core of HDL is esterified (cholesterol esters). The cholesterol that is effluxed from cells to HDL is free cholesterol and is localized on the surface of HDL particles. In order to form mature large spherical HDL particles with a core of cholesterol esters the free cholesterol transferred from cells to the surface of HDL particles must be esterified. LCAT, an HDL associated enzyme catalyzes the transfer of a fatty acid from phospholipids to free cholesterol resulting in the formation of cholesterol esters. The cholesterol ester formed is then able to move from the surface of the HDL particle to the core allowing additional free cholesterol to be transferred from cells to HDL particles. Apo A-I is an activator of LCAT and facilitates this esterification process. LCAT activity is required for the formation of large HDL particles. LCAT deficiency in humans results in decreased HDL cholesterol and Apo A-I levels and a higher percentage of small HDL particles ( 72 ). HDL Metabolism Lipases and transfer proteins play an important role in determining the size and composition of HDL particles. The cholesterol ester carried in the core of HDL particles may be transferred to Apo B containing particles in exchange for triglyceride. This transfer is mediated by CETP and results in HDL enriched in triglycerides which may then be metabolized by lipases. Humans deficient in CETP activity have very high HDL cholesterol levels and large HDL particles ( 72 ). CETP also impacts LDL cholesterol levels and the absence of CETP results in a decrease in LDL cholesterol. Mice do not have CETP and have relatively high HDL cholesterol levels and low LDL cholesterol levels. Hepatic lipase hydrolyzes both triglycerides and phospholipids in HDL. The triglycerides that are transferred to HDL by CETP activity are catabolized by hepatic lipase resulting in
