Introduction to Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, apo, hdl, ldl, particles, pubmed, liver, levels, lipoprotein, free, vldl, receptor, chylomicrons, lipoproteins, article


low LDL cholesterol levels. Hepatic lipase hydrolyzes both triglycerides and phospholipids in HDL. The triglycerides that are transferred to HDL by CETP activity are catabolized by hepatic lipase resulting in the formation of small HDL particles and Apo A-I more easily disassociates from small HDL resulting in the release of Apo A-I and increased Apo A-I degradation. Genetic deficiency of hepatic lipase results in a modest elevation in HDL cholesterol levels and larger HDL particles ( 72 ). Hepatic lipase activity is increased in insulin resistant states and this is associated with reduced HDL cholesterol levels. Endothelial cell lipase is a phospholipase that hydrolyzes the phospholipids carried in HDL particles. In mice increased endothelial lipase activity results in decreased HDL cholesterol levels while decreased endothelial lipase activity increases HDL cholesterol levels. The cholesterol carried on HDL is primarily delivered to the liver. The uptake of HDL cholesterol by the liver is mediated by SR-BI, which promotes the selective uptake of HDL cholesterol. The HDL particle binds to SR-BI and the cholesterol in HDL is transported into the liver without internalization of the HDL particle. A smaller cholesterol depleted HDL particle is formed, which is then released back into the circulation. In SR-BI deficient mice there is a marked increase in HDL cholesterol levels. Interestingly the risk of atherosclerosis is increased in these SR-BI deficient mice despite an increase in HDL cholesterol levels. Notably, while HDL cholesterol levels are increased in SR-B1 deficient mice the reverse cholesterol transport pathway is actually reduced. While in mice the physiological importance of the hepatic SR-BI pathway is clear, the role in humans is uncertain. In mice, the movement of cholesterol from peripheral tissues to the liver is dependent solely on SR-BI while in humans CETP can facilitate the transport of cholesterol from HDL to Apo B containing lipoproteins, which serves as an alternative pathway for the transport cholesterol to the liver. Apo A-I is metabolized independently of HDL cholesterol. Most of the Apo A-I is catabolized by the kidneys with the remainder catabolized by the liver. Lipid free or lipid poor Apo A-I is filtered by the kidneys and then taken up by the renal tubules. The size of the Apo A-I particle determines whether it can be filtered by the kidneys and hence the degree of lipidation of Apo A-I determines the rate of catabolism. Conditions or disease states (for example Tangiers disease,
