Introduction to Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, apo, hdl, ldl, particles, pubmed, liver, levels, lipoprotein, free, vldl, receptor, chylomicrons, lipoproteins, article


whether it can be filtered by the kidneys and hence the degree of lipidation of Apo A-I determines the rate of catabolism. Conditions or disease states (for example Tangiers disease, which is due to a mutation in ABCA1, or LCAT deficiency) that result in lipid poor HDL led to the accelerated catabolism of Apo A-I by the kidney. Apo A-I binds to cubilin, which in conjunction with megalin, a member of the LDL receptor gene family, leads to the uptake and degradation of filtered Apo A-I by renal tubular cells. While the liver is also involved in the catabolism of Apo A-I, the mechanisms are poorly understood. HDL particles may contain Apo E and it is therefore possible that Apo E containing HDL particles are taken up via the LDL receptor and other Apo E receptors in the liver and degraded. Reverse Cholesterol Transport ( 73-78 ) Peripheral cells accumulate cholesterol through the uptake of circulating lipoproteins and de novo cholesterol synthesis. Most cells do not have a mechanism for catabolizing cholesterol. Cells that synthesize steroid hormones can convert cholesterol to glucocorticoids, estrogen, testosterone, etc. Intestinal cells, sebocytes, and keratinocytes can secrete cholesterol into the intestinal lumen or onto the skin surface thereby eliminating cholesterol. However, in order for most cells to decrease their cholesterol content reverse cholesterol transport is required. From a clinical point of view, the ability of macrophages in the arterial wall to efficiently efflux cholesterol into the reverse cholesterol transport pathway may play an important role in the prevention of atherosclerosis. As noted earlier ABCA1 plays an important role in the efflux of cholesterol to lipid poor pre-beta Apo A-I particles ( Figure 9 ). ABCG1 plays an important role in the efflux of cholesterol from cells to mature HDL particles. In some studies, SR-B1 also plays a role in the efflux of cholesterol to mature HDL particles. Additionally, passive diffusion of cholesterol from the plasma membrane to HDL may also contribute to cholesterol efflux. The levels of both ABCA1 and ABCG1 are increased by LXR activation. LXR is a nuclear hormone transcription factor that is activated by oxysterols. As the cholesterol levels in a cell increase the formation of oxysterols increases leading to the activation of LXR resulting in an increase in ABCA1 and ABCG1 expression, which will result in the enhanced efflux of cholesterol from the cell to HDL. Additionally, ABCA1 and ABCG1 mRNAs
