Introduction to Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, apo, hdl, ldl, particles, pubmed, liver, levels, lipoprotein, free, vldl, receptor, chylomicrons, lipoproteins, article


of LXR resulting in an increase in ABCA1 and ABCG1 expression, which will result in the enhanced efflux of cholesterol from the cell to HDL. Additionally, ABCA1 and ABCG1 mRNAs are targeted for degradation by miR-33, a microRNA that is embedded within the SREBP2 gene. An increase in cellular cholesterol decreases the expression of SREBP2 leading to a decrease in miR-33 resulting in enhanced LXR expression. Thus, the decrease in SREBP2 transcription will lead to a decrease in LDL receptor activity and a reduction in cholesterol uptake, while simultaneously, a decrease in miR-33 will lead to an increase in LXR activity stimulating the expression of ABCA1 and ABCG1 resulting in increased cholesterol efflux. Conversely a decrease in cellular cholesterol levels will increase SREBP2 expression resulting in an increase in LDL receptor activity and an increase in miR-33, which will result in a decrease in LXR activity, decreased expression of ABCA1 and ABCG1, and a reduction in cholesterol efflux. Together changes in cholesterol uptake mediated by the LDL receptor and cholesterol efflux mediated by ABCA1 and ABCG1 will maintain cellular cholesterol homeostasis. Figure 9. Cholesterol Efflux from Macrophages (modified from J. Clinical Investigation 116: 3090, 2006). Once cholesterol is transferred from cells to HDL there are two pathways for the cholesterol to be transported and taken up by the liver. As discussed earlier, HDL can interact with hepatic SR-BI receptors resulting in the selective uptake of cholesterol from HDL particles. Alternatively, CETP can transfer cholesterol from HDL particles to Apo B containing particles with the subsequent uptake of Apo B containing lipoproteins by the liver. After the delivery of cholesterol to the liver there are several pathways by which the cholesterol can be eliminated. Cholesterol can be converted to bile acids and secreted in the bile. Alternatively, cholesterol can be directly secreted into the bile. ABCG5 and ABCG8 promote the transport of cholesterol into the bile and the expression of these genes is enhanced by LXR activation. Thus, an increase in hepatic cholesterol levels leading to increased oxysterol production will activate LXR resulting in the increased expression of ABCG5 and ABCG8 facilitating the secretion of cholesterol in the bile. Evidence suggests that reverse cholesterol transport plays an important role in protecting from the development of atherosclerosis. It should be noted that HDL cholesterol levels may not be indicative of the rate of reverse cholesterol transport. As described above reverse cholesterol transport
