Introduction to Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: cholesterol, apo, hdl, ldl, particles, pubmed, liver, levels, lipoprotein, free, vldl, receptor, chylomicrons, lipoproteins, article


from the development of atherosclerosis. It should be noted that HDL cholesterol levels may not be indicative of the rate of reverse cholesterol transport. As described above reverse cholesterol transport involves several steps and the level of HDL cholesterol may not accurately reflect these steps. For example, studies have shown that the ability of HDL to promote cholesterol efflux from macrophages can vary. Thus, the same level of HDL cholesterol may not have equivalent abilities to mediate the initial step of reverse cholesterol transport. LIPOPROTEIN (a) ( 14-16 , 79 ) Figure 10. Lp (a). Lp (a) consists of an LDL molecule and a unique apolipoprotein (a), which is attached to the Apo B-100 of the LDL via a single disulfide bound. Lp (a) contain Apo (a) and Apo B-100 in a 1:1 molar ratio. Like Apo B-100, apo (a) is also made by hepatocytes. Apo (a) contains multiple kringle motifs that are similar to the kringle repeats in plasminogen. The number of kringle repeats can vary and thus the molecular weight of apo (a) can range from 250,000 to 800,000. The levels of Lp (a) in plasma can vary more than a 1000-fold ranging from undetectable to greater than 100mg/dl. Lp (a) levels largely reflect Lp (a) production rates, which are primarily genetically regulated and not greatly affected by environmental factors. Individuals with high molecular weight Apo (a) proteins tend to have lower levels of Lp (a) while individuals with low molecular weight Apo (a) tend to have higher levels. It is hypothesized that the liver is less efficient in secreting high molecular weight Apo (a). The mechanism of Lp (a) clearance is uncertain but does not appear to primarily involve LDL receptors. Therapies that accelerate LDL clearance and lower LDL levels do not lower Lp (a) levels (for example statin therapy). The kidney appears to play an important role in Lp (a) clearance as kidney disease is associated with delayed clearance and elevations in Lp (a) levels. Elevated plasma Lp(a) levels are associated with an increased risk of atherosclerosis. Apo (a) is an inhibitor of fibrinolysis and enhances the uptake of lipoproteins by macrophages, both of which could account for the increased the risk of atherosclerosis in individuals with elevated Apo (a) levels. Additionally, Lp (a) is the major lipoprotein carrier of oxidized phospholipids, which are inflammatory and could also increase the risk of atherosclerosis. The physiologic function
