Brit. J. Pharmacol. (1964))2 3, 360-373.
KEYWORDS: blood, strip, rat, stomach, stomach strip, rat stomach, organs, histamine, noradrenaline, adrenaline, fig, catechol, amines, catechol amines, isolated


Brit. J. Pharmacol. (1964))2 3, 360-373. THE USE OF ISOLATED ORGANS FOR DETECTING ACTIVE SUBSTANCES IN THE CIRCULATING BLOOD BY J. R. VANE (Received February 7, 1964) A method is described for the assay of circulating hormones after their injection or reiease into the circulation. The method is applicable to cats, dogs and rabbits, and consists of bathing or superfusing isolated smooth muscle preparations in a stream of heparinized arterial blood taken from and returned to the animal at a constant rate. The tone of the smooth muscle preparations was affected by small changes in the concentrations of various amines. Thus increases in blood concentrations of catechol amines can be assayed with the rat stomach strip and chick rectum prepara- tions. The proportions of adrenaline and noradrenaline in a mixture can be determined. Circulating histamine can be assayed on the blood-bathed guinea-pig ileum and bradykinin on the rat duodenum preparations. The uses and limitations of the technique are discussed. The estimation of hormones circulating in the blood stream of animals has always needed not only considerable skill but also a painstaking process of collection. purification and assay. Many of these lengthy procedures make use of an isolated organ for the final determination. The method to be described here eliminates the intermediate steps of collection and purification, by bathing the isolated assay organ directly in the circulating blood ; a brief account has already been published (Vane, 1958). METHODS The method depends upon establishing a secondary circulation of blood outside the animal. Blood is taken from a convenient artery, passed over the assay organ and then returned to a convenient vein. As this involves depleting the animal of 5 to 15 ml. of blood for the extra- corporeal circuit, the technique has so far been confined to cats, rabbits and dogs. The results presented in this paper were all obtained with cats. Cats were anaesthetized with ethyl chloride and ether. They were then either made spinal by the method of Kosterlitz. Krayer 8r Mattalana (1955) or anaesthetized with chloralose 180 mg/kg. intravenously). The trachea was canndatcd to facilitate artificial ventilation. A brachial, femoral or carotid artery was cannulated for recording arterial blood pressure with a mercury manometer. Intravenous injections were made through a cannula in a femoral vein. Polyethylene cannulae were tied into either a brachial or a carotid artery to supply the extracorporeal circulation with blood and into a jugular
