Brit. J. Pharmacol. (1964))2 3, 360-373.
KEYWORDS: blood, strip, rat, stomach, stomach strip, rat stomach, organs, histamine, noradrenaline, adrenaline, fig, catechol, amines, catechol amines, isolated


through a cannula in a femoral vein. Polyethylene cannulae were tied into either a brachial or a carotid artery to supply the extracorporeal circulation with blood and into a jugular vein to return the blood to the body. The apparatus for the extracorporeal circulation was made from silicone tubing, poly- ethylene tubing and siliconed glass and is shown in Fig. la. The organ-bath was kept warm by circulating water at 38" C through a glass jacket. The blood overflowed from the inner chamber into a venous reservoir in which a second isolated organ was sometimes suspended. The blood superfused the second tissue and was then returned to the jugular vein by gravity. BLOOD-BATHED ISOLATED ORGANS 361 - ,. +3pL[ YOO. ,".dW m.. (a1 (b) Fig. 1. Diagram of apparatus, not to scale. (a) Bathing one tissue in a bath of blood and superfusing another. (b) Superfusing two tissues with blood. In the early experiments the blood was pumped through the external circuit by the heart, and the rate of flow was controlled by a screw-clip. As the rate of flow needed frequent adjustment, especially after the intravenous injection of a drug such as adrenaline, a pump was interposed to control the flow of blood through the outside circuit. In order not to add substantially to the external volume of blood either a roller pump or a Sigmamotor finger " " pump was used. These pumps had the advantage that a second tube could be added to pump the blood back into the cat. In later experiments it was found that superfusion (Gaddum, 1953) of all the isolated organs worked equally well (Fig. 1,b). The organs were suspended in jackets made from poly- propylene centrifuge tubes (100 or 130 ml.) of 38 mm internal diameter and the warm blood was made to trickle over the tissue. Superfusion had several advantages: less blood was removed from the cat ; up to three isolated organs could be included in the extracorporeal circulation, with the blood cascading down from one to the next; and the sensitivity of the organs to drugs was higher. The organ-baths and recording levers were clamped to a pair of rigid uprights and were carefully aligned before the experiment began. A vibrator attached to one of the uprights minimized friction between the levers and the smoked paper. The movements of the assay organs were recorded either by pendulum levers (Paton,
