Brit. J. Pharmacol. (1964))2 3, 360-373.
KEYWORDS: blood, strip, rat, stomach, stomach strip, rat stomach, organs, histamine, noradrenaline, adrenaline, fig, catechol, amines, catechol amines, isolated


A vibrator attached to one of the uprights minimized friction between the levers and the smoked paper. The movements of the assay organs were recorded either by pendulum levers (Paton, 1957) or by isotonic levers. The magnification of the levers was 16: 1 with a load on the tissues of 1 to 3 g. After the animal had been prepared and the apparatus aligned the external circuit was con- nected with silicone or polyethylene tubing of narrow bore (1 to 2 mm internal diameter) to the arterial and venous cannulae. The animal was heparinized by the intravenous injection of Pularin (Evans ; 1,00OU/kg). The external circuit was primed with about 15 ml. of heparinized 0.9% saline or Tyrode solution in the venous return reservoir. Rat stomach strip preparation This preparation, described by Vane (1957), was made either from normal rats or from rats which had been treated with reserpine (1 mg/kg, intramuscularly, 18 hr previously). The strip 25 1 362 J. R. VANE was swirled around in Tyrode solution to remove any loose filaments and traces of stomach contents. It was then pulled into the organ-bath or the superfusion jacket by a previously threaded piece of cotton. When the stomach strip was in place, the cotton attached to the lower end was fixed. The roller pump was turned on to allow blood to flow into the bath. At the same time, saline followed by blood was pumped back into the jugular vein. The stomach strip was attached to the pendulum lever so that its movements were recorded. Other isolated organ preparations The following preparations were used : ileum, taenia coli and vas deferens of the guinea-pig ; duodenum, uterus and seminal vesicle of the rat ; and rectum of the chicken. The organs were taken from animals which had just been killed by stunning and exsanguination. The part to be used was dissected out and washed in Tyrode solution. It was suspended in the apparatus, connected to a frontal-writing lever, and bathing or superfusion with blood was started. Drugs The following drugs were used, and the doses of salts are given in terms of base : acetylcholine perchlorate, (-)-adrenaline hydrogen tartrate (B.D.H.), bradykinin (Parke Davis), choline chloride, Compound 48/80 (Burroughs Wellcome), histamine hydrogen phosphate (B.D.H.), 5-hydroxytryptamine creatinine sulphate (M & B), hyoscine hydrobromide (B.D.H.), ( f) -isoprenaline sulphate, methysergide (Sandoz), nicotine hydrogen tartrate (B.D.H.). (-)-noradrenaline hydrogen tartrate (B.D.H.) and trypsin
