Brit. J. Pharmacol. (1964))2 3, 360-373.
KEYWORDS: blood, strip, rat, stomach, stomach strip, rat stomach, organs, histamine, noradrenaline, adrenaline, fig, catechol, amines, catechol amines, isolated


Wellcome), histamine hydrogen phosphate (B.D.H.), 5-hydroxytryptamine creatinine sulphate (M & B), hyoscine hydrobromide (B.D.H.), ( f) -isoprenaline sulphate, methysergide (Sandoz), nicotine hydrogen tartrate (B.D.H.). (-)-noradrenaline hydrogen tartrate (B.D.H.) and trypsin (Armour). RESULTS Eflects of changing from Tyrode solution to blood The sensitivities of the isolated organs were different when bathed in Tyrode solution and when bathed in blood. This is illustrated in Fig. 2 for the rat stomach strip. The tissue was first superfused with a constant flow (12 ml./min) of oxygenated Tyrode solution at 37' C. Injections of adrenaline and noradrenaline caused a relaxation of the strip, whereas histamine, acetylcholine, 5-hydroxytrypt- amine and choline all caused contractions (Fig, 2.q b and c). An extracorporeal circulation from a cat was then started so that the strip was bathed, in place of . Fig. 2. Sensitivity to various drugs of the rat stomach strip preparation when superfused with Tyrode solution (a, b and c) and with blood (d and e). Noradrenaline (NA), 5-hydroxytryptamine (5HT), acetylcholine (Ach), histamine (Hist), choline (Ch) and adrenaline (Adr) were injected into the bathing fluid in the doses shown. When bathed in blood from a spinal cat, the strip was much more sensitive to catechol amines and much less sensitive to 5-hydroxytryptamine. Time in minutes. Vertical scale in cm on the kymograph. BLOOD-BATHED ISOLATED ORGANS 363 Tyrode solution, in recirculating blood at the same rate of flow. As soon as the blood came into contact with the rat stomach strip its tone increased substantially, so much so that the position of the lever fulcrum had to be lowered to bring the writing point back on to the kymograph. The increase in tone represented a shortening of the muscle by about 20%. Thereafter, the preparation was much more sensitive to the relaxant effects of adrenaline and noradrenaline and much less sensitive to the contractor effect of 5-hydroxytryptamine. The sensitivities to choline and histamine were comparatively unchanged (Fig. 2,e). Acetylcholine was much less effective, probably because it was destroyed by plasma cholinesterases. The tone of other isolated organs also increased when bathed in blood, and they also became less sensitive to acetylcholine and to 5-hydroxytryptamine. The increased tone of the tissues and the decreased sensitivity to some contractor drugs could be accounted for by a circulating contractor substance or a mixture of substances. Treatment of the tissues with hyoscine (lo-' g/l. added to the Tyrode solution for 1 hr)
