Brit. J. Pharmacol. (1964))2 3, 360-373.
KEYWORDS: blood, strip, rat, stomach, stomach strip, rat stomach, organs, histamine, noradrenaline, adrenaline, fig, catechol, amines, catechol amines, isolated


could be accounted for by a circulating contractor substance or a mixture of substances. Treatment of the tissues with hyoscine (lo-' g/l. added to the Tyrode solution for 1 hr) did not reduce the contractor effect of blood. Treatment of the tissues with niethysergide (lo-' g/l. added to the Tyrode solution for 1 hr) partially reduced the contractor effect of blood, which suggested that circulating 5-hydroxy- tryptamine might contribute to the contraction. Since the rat duodenum preparation was also contracted by blood, but is relaxed by bradykinin, a circulating kinin was unlikely to account for the increase in tone. E#ects of rate of flow The rate at which the blood was pumped through the bath or superfused affected the tone of the isolated organs. When the rate of flow was lowered from 10 ml./min the tone of the rat stomach strip decreased. When the rate of flow was raised from 10 to 20 ml./min there was little change in tone and in the sensitivity to drugs. Therefore a constant rate of flow of about 12 to 15 ml./min was used. Eflects of oxygen tension Both the tone of the preparations and their responses to drugs were substantially affected by changes in the oxygen tension of the bathing blood. When the cat was ventilated artificially with air, the tone of the blood-bathed stomach strip was constant. When the animal was made to breathe 100% oxygen, the tone of the stomach strip rose considerably to a higher constant level; it was then more sensitive to adrenaline and to noradrenaline. This effect of oxygen tension will be the subject of a future paper (Smith & Vane). In all the following experiments, to minimize variations in the tone of the organs, the cat was ventilated artificially with air at a fixed stroke volume. Detection of circulating catechol amines The rat stomach strip was generally the most sensitive tissue for detecting circulating catechol amine. However, in order to assay both noradrenaline and adrenaline in a mixture, at least two tissues were needed. The rat stomach strip gave an estimate of total amines, for its sensitivity to both adrenaline and nor- adrenaline was of the same order (adrenaline was twice as active as noradrenaline). 25 3 364 J. R. VANE t Min 1'"1''''1 Rat stomach strip Cm Chick rectum I I I 1 I l l 1 I I I I - ~ 0 0 0
