Brit. J. Pharmacol. (1964))2 3, 360-373.
KEYWORDS: blood, strip, rat, stomach, stomach strip, rat stomach, organs, histamine, noradrenaline, adrenaline, fig, catechol, amines, catechol amines, isolated


364 J. R. VANE t Min 1'"1''''1 Rat stomach strip Cm Chick rectum I I I 1 I l l 1 I I I I - ~ 0 0 0 ~ 0 0 0 Y ) Y ) y0 ! O - N t O - N t r ! ~ O AT- -- T-'o -1-' Ad r NA IP Fig. 3. Rat stomach strip (top) and chick rectum (bottom) preparations superfused with blood from a cat anaesthetized with chloralose. The records show the relaxations produced in the blood- bathed organs when doses of adrenaline (Adr), noradrenaline (NA)a nd isoprenaline (IP) were injected intravenously into the cat. All doses in pg. Time in minutes. Vertical scale in cm on the kymogaph. The chick rectum preparation, as shown by Mann & West (1950). responded primarily to adrenaline (25- to 100-times more active than noradrenaline). The effects of intravenous injections of adrenaline. noradrenaline and isoprenaline are shown in Fig. 3. It can be seen that the combination of rat stomach strip and chick rectum preparations distinguished between adrenaline and noradrenaline, but not between adrenaline and isoprenaline. Quantitative estimates of the proportions of adrenaline and noradrenaline were obtained by plotting the isobols. In some experiments the guinea-pig vas deferens was used as a third test organ in an attempt to distinguish between adrenaline. noradrenaline and isoprenaline, but it was usually too insensitive in comparison with the other two organs. Calibration by injection The blood-bathed organs were calibrated either by injecting or by infusing drugs into the constant flow of bathing blood. An example is shown in Fig. 4,a. Nor- BLOOD-BATHED ISOLATED ORGANS 365 -- I l l I I I l l I I I I I I I I 10 20 40 80 ng 5 10 20 40 5 sec 2 5 0.5 I 10 20 50 I.V. La. Fig. 4. Rat stomach strip preparation superfused with blood frcm a cat anaesthetised with chloralose (0) Sensitivity of the strip to noradrenaline injected in nanogram doses (given below) into the superfusing blood ; (6) reactions of the strip to a repeated dose of noradrenaline (30 ng) injected over the different time periods shown below ; (c) comparison of the effects of noradrenaline injected in microgram doses intravenously (i.v.) and intra-arterially (i.a.). Time in minutes. Vertical scale in cm on the kymograph. adrenaline was injected into the bathing blood in increasing doses, giving a
