Brit. J. Pharmacol. (1964))2 3, 360-373.
KEYWORDS: blood, strip, rat, stomach, stomach strip, rat stomach, organs, histamine, noradrenaline, adrenaline, fig, catechol, amines, catechol amines, isolated


in microgram doses intravenously (i.v.) and intra-arterially (i.a.). Time in minutes. Vertical scale in cm on the kymograph. adrenaline was injected into the bathing blood in increasing doses, giving a dose/ response curve with good discrimination. Fig. 4,c shows the effects of injecting noradrenaline intravenously. The concentration of noradrenaline in the bathing blood after an intravenous injection of 1 pg was equivalent to the concentration when 20 ng were injected directly into the bathing blood. With all drugs, except those destroyed rapidly in the blood stream, an injection into the bathing blood of 1/ 20th to 1/5Oth of the intravenous dose gave approximately the same response as the intravenous dose. On intravenous injection, a drug first has to pass through the heart and lungs before it reaches the arterial blood ; during this passage the drug will become distributed into a greater volume than when it is injected directly into the bathing blood. To determine whether such distribution might change the magnitude of the responses of the organ, a dose of noradrenaline was injected directly into the bathing blood over time periods of 5, 10, 20 and 40 sec (Fig. 4.6). As long as the injection was completed within less than 20 sec the relaxation of the stomach strip was substantially the same ; when the injection took more than 20 sec the relaxa- tion was smaller. Thus, the possible spreading out of an injection by passage through a vascular bed would interfere with the assay only if the passage caused a delay of more than 20 sec. Calibration of the monitoring organs by single injections gave only relative values for the concentrations of drugs in the blood. It was, however, valuable for comparing the concentrations after intravenous injection with those after intraportal or intra-arterial injections. Fig. 4,c shows that about forty-times the intravenous dose of noradrenaline had to be injected into the abdominal aorta of the cat (through a cannula tied into the inferior mesenteric artery) to give the same concentration in the carotid blood. Thus, in one circulation through the hind-quarters of a cat, more than 95% of the noradrenaline was either destroyed or removed from the circulation. 366 3. R. VANE Calibration by infusion To determine changes in blood levels of catechol amines quantitatively, the assay organs were calibrated by infusing the drugs directly into the bathing blood. Since the rate of flow of bathing blood was
