Brit. J. Pharmacol. (1964))2 3, 360-373.
KEYWORDS: blood, strip, rat, stomach, stomach strip, rat stomach, organs, histamine, noradrenaline, adrenaline, fig, catechol, amines, catechol amines, isolated


in blood levels of catechol amines quantitatively, the assay organs were calibrated by infusing the drugs directly into the bathing blood. Since the rate of flow of bathing blood was known the response of the tissue could be calibrated in terms of nanograms of drug per ml. of blood. It was fortunate that, with the rat stomach strip and with the chick rectum preparations, the change of tone produced by catechol amines remained constant as long as the catechol amines were present, in other words there was little or no tachyphylaxis (Fig. 5). Mln Rat stomach stri' P Crn Chick recturn ; I20 Blood pressur e Ad renal1n e Fig. 5. Rat stomach strip (top) and chick rectum (middle) preparationss uperfused with blood from a cat anaesthetized with chloralose (bottom record is of the cat's blood pressure). Between the arrows adrenaline (2 pglmin) was infused intravenously. Time in minutes. Vertical scale in cm on the kymograph. Determination of hormones released by other drugs When the technique was used to detect catechol amines or other hormones released into the circulation by the injection of another drug, the effects on the test organs of the releasing drug had to be determined first. This is well illustrated by phen- ethylamine, which liberates noradrenaline from tissues (Burn, 1960 ; Vane, 1960). When the rat stomach strip was bathed in Tyrode or Krebs solution, phenethylamine caused a contraction (Vane, 1960). However, when the rat stomach strip was bathed in blood. an injection of phenethylamine directly into the bathing blood produced a relaxation, very similar to that produced by noradrenaline. Thus, a normal rat stomach strip preparation could not be used for detecting any circulating catechol amines released by phenethylamine. However, a stomach strip taken from a rat BLOOD-BATHED ISOLATED ORGANS 367 previously treated with reserpine and bathed in blood responded to phenethylamine with a small contraction but still relaxed to catecholamine ; it could therefore be used for assay of catechol amines in the presence of phenethylamine (Vane, 1960). Nicotine. Nicotine itself caused only a small contraction of the blood-bathed rat stomach strip or chick rectum, and the relaxation of the tissues produced by circulating catechol amines was not masked by the direct action of the nicotine. Nicotine (50 to 100 pg, intravenously) releases 0.3 to 1 pg of catechol amines. Histamine. The rat stomach strip and chick rectum preparations are relatively insensitive to histamine
