Brit. J. Pharmacol. (1964))2 3, 360-373.
KEYWORDS: blood, strip, rat, stomach, stomach strip, rat stomach, organs, histamine, noradrenaline, adrenaline, fig, catechol, amines, catechol amines, isolated


the nicotine. Nicotine (50 to 100 pg, intravenously) releases 0.3 to 1 pg of catechol amines. Histamine. The rat stomach strip and chick rectum preparations are relatively insensitive to histamine and can therefore be used to detect catechol amines released Gu inea- pig ileum Rat StOln ach strip al 18)- E 70 z Min Hist Hirt 15 2 Fig. 6. Guinea-pig ileum (top) and rat stomach strip (middle) preparations bathed in blood from il spinal cat (bottom record is of the cat’s blood pressure). After injections of histamine (Hist 15 and 2 pg, intravenously) the guinea-pig ileum was contracted by the circulating histamine ; 20 to 30 sec later, the eat stomach strip relaxed, due to catechol amines liberated into the circula- tion. Time in minutes. Vertical scales in cm on the kymograph and in equivalent intravenous doses of adrenaline (Adr) and noradrenaline (NA). by histamine. Fig. 6 shows that the well-known liberation of catechol amines by histamine could be detected by this method. Hexamethonium did not prevent this release whereas mepyramine did. In this experiment a blood-bathed guinea-pig ileum was used to detect circulating histamine. By using both the rat stomach strip and the chick rectum as parallel assay preparations, it was possible to show that 368 J. R. VANE Min 17”’1 Rat stoma ch strip Cm Chick rectum I I I I I Adr Hist Adr Hist Ad r 0.2 2 0.5 4 I Fig. 7. kdt stomach strip (top) and chick rectum (bottom) preparations superfused with blood from a cat anaesthetized with chloralose. Comparison of the effects of catechol amines liberated by intravenous doses of histamine (Hist, 2 and 4 pg) with intravenous injections of adrenaline (Adr, 0.2,O.S and 1 pg). Time in minutes. Vertical scale in cm on the kymograph. histamine liberated mainly adrenaline (Fig. 7). Only a small fraction of the histamine injected intravenously reached the adrenal glands ; nevertheless, as little as 2 pg released about 0.4 pg of adrenaline (Fig. 7). The release of catechol amine was abolished by removing the adrenal glands. Release of histamine The release of histamine into the circulation can be readily demonstrated with the guinea-pig ileum as the assay organ. Fig. 8 shows the detection of circulating histamine after an intravenous injection of Compound 48/80 (50 pg). a substance shown to release histamine by Paton (1951). The effects of the histamine on the guinea-pig ileum were abolished by
