Brit. J. Pharmacol. (1964))2 3, 360-373.
KEYWORDS: blood, strip, rat, stomach, stomach strip, rat stomach, organs, histamine, noradrenaline, adrenaline, fig, catechol, amines, catechol amines, isolated


after an intravenous injection of Compound 48/80 (50 pg). a substance shown to release histamine by Paton (1951). The effects of the histamine on the guinea-pig ileum were abolished by mepyramine. Detection of 5-hydroxytryptmine In Tyrode solution, the rat stomach strip preparation is sensitive to concentrations of lo-” g/ml. of 5-hydroxytryptamine. When bathed in blood, however, it was much less sensitive, and the guinea-pig ileum, taenia coli and rat duodenum prepara- tions gave better responses. However, none of these organs was sufficiently sensitive to detect the changes in concentration of 5-hydroxytryptamine in the blood stream produced by intravenous injections of 1 to 5 pg. BLOOD-BATHED ISOLATED ORGANS 369 Min m Guinea-pig ileum e iG 21 70 ; E 30 z0 - Hist 48/80 MeP Q.5I.a 5QM I mg Fig. 8. Guinea-pig ileum (top) preparation bathed in blood from a spinal cat (bottom record is of the cat’s blood pressure). The guinea-pig ileum responds to histamine (Hist, 0.5 pg, intravenously) with a transient contraction, but gives a prolonged contraction after the intravenous injection of the histamine liberator, Compound 48/80 (50 pg, intravenously).T he contraction isabolished by mepyramine (Mep, 1 mg, intravenously). Time in minutes.V ertical scale in cm on the kymograph. Detection of racetylcholine and choline-like substances Acetylcholine is rapidly destroyed in blood and was difficult to detect after intravenous injections. Intravenous choline (lo0 pg) contracted the blood-bathed rat stomach strip and duodenum, and the guinea-pig ileum and taenia coli preparations. Release of bradykinin The rat duodenum relaxes in the presence of bradykinin (Horton. 1959), whereas most other isolated organs contract. A combination of rat duodenum with rat stomach strip was, therefore, especially useful for the identification of bradykinin. Bradykinin injected into the bathing blood relaxed the duodenum and contracted the stomach strip. Catechol amines relaxed both organs, whereas 5-hydroxytrypt- amine contracted both. Fig. 9 shows all these responses. Trypsin is well known to release bradykinin (Rocha e Silva, 1960) and when injected intravenously it released sufficient bradykinin-like substance to be detected by this method. Similarly, when blood was withdrawn from the external circuit into a glass syringe for 1 min and then pushed back, the rat duodenum relaxed and the stomach strip contracted (Fig. 9,b) ; this showed that contact with the glass (Armstrong, Jepson, Keele & Stewart, 1957) had released a bradykinin-like substance. Determination of hormones released by reflexes The contribution of the adrenal glands to cardiovascular reactions could
