Brit. J. Pharmacol. (1964))2 3, 360-373.
KEYWORDS: blood, strip, rat, stomach, stomach strip, rat stomach, organs, histamine, noradrenaline, adrenaline, fig, catechol, amines, catechol amines, isolated


with the glass (Armstrong, Jepson, Keele & Stewart, 1957) had released a bradykinin-like substance. Determination of hormones released by reflexes The contribution of the adrenal glands to cardiovascular reactions could also be determined with this technique. Fig. 10 demonstrates the release of minute 3 70 J. R. VANE I I I I I I l l Adr Adr NA Brady Brady Brady Blood 5HT 0.5 I t I 0.05 0.01 5 ml. I I.V. 1.b.b. Fig. 9. Rat stomach strip (top) and rat duodenum (bottom) preparations superfused with blood from a cat anaesthetized with chloralose. (a) The effects of intravenous (1.v.) adrenaline (Adr) and noradrenaline (NA) on the two tissues, compared with those of bradykinin (Brady) ; (b) a com- parison of the effects of bradykinin, 5-hyroxytryptamine (5 HT) and 5 ml. of blood reinjected into the superfusion circuit after contact with glass for 1 min. The reactions of the tissues indicate the liberation of about 10 pg of bradykinin. Time in minutes. Vertical scale in an on the kymograph. All doses in pg. amounts of catechol amines into the blood stream when the carotid artery occlusion response was elicited. These concentrations were negligible compared with those following the intravenous injection of sufficient adrenaline or noradrenaline to raise the blood pressure. Therefore, the rise in blood pressure induced by carotid occlusion was almost entirely due to sympathetic nerve stimulation with very little contribution due to the release of catechol amines from the adrenal glands. DISCUSSION The results show that blood-bathed organs can detect low concentrations of many hormones, whether they are injected into or released within the body. The method will detect concentrations of about 1 ng/ml. of adrenaline or of noradrenaline in blood and is therefore of the same order of sensitivity as, for instance, the denervated nictitating membrane preparation of the cat for adrenaline, or the pithed rat blood pressure response for noradrenaline. Furthermore, concentrations of amine can be determined quantitatively and immediately by suitable direct calibration of the assay organ. During the development of the method, several interesting observations were made. When the organs were first bathed with blood instead of with Tyrode solution they contracted, Part of the contraction was probably due to a low BLOOD-BA THED ISOLATED ORGANS 37 I Min m Adr Adr Adr Carotid I 0.5 2 occlusion Fig. 10. Rat stomach strip preparation (top) superfused with blood from a cat anaesthetized with
