Brit. J. Pharmacol. (1964))2 3, 360-373.
KEYWORDS: blood, strip, rat, stomach, stomach strip, rat stomach, organs, histamine, noradrenaline, adrenaline, fig, catechol, amines, catechol amines, isolated


THED ISOLATED ORGANS 37 I Min m Adr Adr Adr Carotid I 0.5 2 occlusion Fig. 10. Rat stomach strip preparation (top) superfused with blood from a cat anaesthetized with chloralose (bottom record is of the cat’s blood pressure). (a),t he effects of adrenaline (03,l and 2 pg, intravenously). (b), only small amounts of catechol amines were liberated into the circula- tion during the period of carotid arterial occlusion marked by the horizontal line. Time in minutes. Vertical scale in cm on the kymograph. concentration of 5-hydroxytryptamine circulating in the blood since (a) the sensitivity of the blood-bathed stomach strip to 5-hydroxytryptamine was so much decreased, and (b) a specific antagonist of 5-hydroxytryptamine, methysergide, partially abolished the contractor effect of blood. The part of the contraction induced by blood which is resistant to methysergide was unlikely to be due to acetylcholine, bradykinin or histamine because (a) it was resistant to hyoscine, (b) the rat duodenum preparation is also contracted, but is relaxed by bradykinin, and (c) the rat stomach strip is insensitive to histamine. Part of the contractor effect of blood may be due to a natural hormone as yet unidentified ; or to the synthesis of a contractor substance within the isolated organ from a precursor carried in the blood ; or to a change in pH or osmotic pressure: these possibilities have still to be investigated. Increases in the oxygen tension of the bathing blood also lead to increases in the resting tone of the isolated organs (Smith & Vane, unpublished). There are several limitations to the use of this method: (i) It only detects changes in the concentrations of circulating hormones around those which may be present at the start of the experiment. (ii) If a mixture of substances is injected or liberated, the individual components can only be distinguished by using more than one monitoring organ preparation. With a combination of chick rectum and rat stomach strip preparations it is possible 26 1 372 J. R. VANE to detect and to estimate the amounts of adrenaline and noradrenaline in a mixture. Similarly, if two or three blood-bathed organs are chosen with care it is possible to identify a single circulating hormone with reasonable certainty. For instance, a substance which contracts guinea-pig ileum but has no effect on the rat stomach or duodenum preparation is most likely to be histamine. A substance which relaxes rat stomach and
