Brit. J. Pharmacol. (1964))2 3, 360-373.
KEYWORDS: blood, strip, rat, stomach, stomach strip, rat stomach, organs, histamine, noradrenaline, adrenaline, fig, catechol, amines, catechol amines, isolated


a substance which contracts guinea-pig ileum but has no effect on the rat stomach or duodenum preparation is most likely to be histamine. A substance which relaxes rat stomach and duodenum and has no effect on the guinea-pig ileum preparation is likely to be a catechol amine ; and a substance which relaxes rat duodenum but contracts or has no effect on the guinea-pig ileum and rat stomach strip preparations is likely to be bradykinin. The time courses of the responses are also instructive ; thus, with an injection of histamine there is first a contraction of the guinea-pig ileum ; 20 to 30 sec later the stomach strip begins to relax due to a liberation of catechol amines from the adrenal glands. The method has been used to detect increases in concentration of substances in the blood stream after several well-known procedures ;t he release of catechol amines by nicotine and histamine ; the mlease of histamine by histamine-liberators, and the release of bradykinin by trypsin, and by contact of blood with glass. The method has also been used to demonstrate that tyramine-like substances do not liberate catechol amines into the general circulation (Vane, 1960) ; to measure the release of catechol amines from the adrenal gland (Marley. 1960, 1961 ; Marley & Paton, 1961 ; Marley & Prout, unpublished); and to estimate the amount of oxytocin released by intracarotid arterial injections of hypertonic saline (Saxby. Siddiqi & Walker, 1960). In its present form, the technique has been applied to cats, dogs and rabbits, mainly because these animals can easily supply the 10 to 15 ml. of blood needed to fill the external circuit. By reducing the capacity of the external circuit, or by priming it with blood from a second animal, it should be possible to use the method with smaller animals. The applications of the method so far discussed involve the use of isolated organs to detect circulating hormones. The technique can also be used to study the , reactions of isolated organs when they are bathed in blood instead of in an artificial salt solution. For instance, phenethylamine contracted the rat stomach strip prepara- tion when it was bathed in Krebs solution (an action on tryptamine receptors: Vane, 1960) but relaxed the strip when it was bathed in blood. This is evidence for a local release of noradrenaline by phenethylamine-like substances. Apparently, this local release does
