CASE REPORTS
KEYWORDS: allopurinol, renal, patient, skin, present, case, med, salt, rash, liver, day, vasculitis, administration, hepatic, fever


is worth noting thatthere is no record of this emetictotreat acute poisoning.2'4'5'7 To emphasize Los Angeles this point, it should be noted that within the year, five additional deaths consequent to the use of saline as an emetic have been reported; in one ALLOPURINOL is a xanthine oxidase inhibitor and patient the serum sodium level was recorded at is used in the treatment of hypercuricemia. The 227 mEq per liter.'4-'6 Recommendations for the drug is well tolerated, with mild skin rash and use of saline emetics must be expunged from first gastrointestinal upset being the most common aid manuals. side effects.'-3 Rare occurrences of alopecia,4 agranulocytosis,5 xanthine stones,6 granulomatous Summary From the Departments of Medicine (Drs. Boyer and Reynolds), Submitted February 11, 1976. salt. She became comatose and died within six to Reprints not available. THE WESTERN JOURNAL OF MEDICINE 143 CASE REPORTS hepatitis7 and toxic epidermal necrolysis8 have term weight reduction and convalescence. Admin- been reported. We describe three patients with istration of the furosemide, digoxin and allopuri- severe reactions to allopurinol that included hep- nol was continued. atocellular necrosis, hepatic granulomata, renal He did well until September 29 when a tem- failure and exfoliative dermatitis secondary to a perature of 103°F (39.4°C) developed. The hypersensitivity vasculitis. A subsequent con- fever was followed by deteriorating hepatic and trolled challenge to allopurinol in one patient renal tests, as listed in Table 1. Generalized pru- elicited a positive response. Since most hepatic ritus was first noted on October 3 and the patient reactions that occur during therapeutic drugusage was transferred back to LAC-USCMC on October 4. are not accompanied by renal failure, the signifi- On readmission the patient was febrile to cance of a history of allopurinol ingestion may 102°F (38.8°C) and obtunded. An erythematous not be appreciated in patients like those described scaling rash was present on his face. He was below. icteric but the liver could not be palpated. Urine output was maintained at 1,000 to 1,200 ml per Reports of Cases day. Findings on analysis of urine included 2+ CASE 1. A 29-year-old black man, a security protein, 5 to 8 leukocytes, occasional red blood guard, had been followed at Los Angeles County- cells, and numerous hyaline and granular casts. (LAC-USCMC) since 1973 for exogenous obesity, ophilia was present. The prothrombin time, ini- idiopathic hypoventilation and cardiomyopathy. tially 30 percent, rose to 89 percent following Medications taken since
