CASE REPORTS
KEYWORDS: allopurinol, renal, patient, skin, present, case, med, salt, rash, liver, day, vasculitis, administration, hepatic, fever


generalized pruritus. Ampicillin had been pre- scribed three to four days before admission to hospital. He was febrile to 102°F (38.8°C) and a generalized macropapular skin eruption was present. Findings on physical examination were otherwise unremarkable. No further ampicillin was given but there was continued administration of allopurinol, diphenylhydantoin and digoxin. Results of the initial and subsequent laboratory w &i S~~~;t., -:,&i*.* tests are listed in Table 1. The leukocyte count Figure 1.-Needle liver biopsy specimen in case 1 was 5,800 to 7,500 per cu mm with 2 to 8 per- showing centrilobular necrosis with numerous acido- cent eosinophils. Urine outputinitially wasgreater philic bodies. Paraffin section with hematoxylin and eosin stain; reduced from original magnification X140. than 1,000 ml per 24 hours; however, toward the end of his hospital course it fell to less than 500 Despite discontinuation of all medications the ml a day. Analysis of urine consistently showed skin, hepatic and renal lesions progressed and 1 + to 2+ proteinuria with occasional red blood therefore administration ofprednisone, 60 mgper cells but no casts. day, was begun on October 16. Concomitant with Fever persisted and the skin rash worsened, the use of prednisone, findings on the hepatic and with exfoliation. Administration of allopurinol renal tests showed improvement and the skin was discontinued on July 2 and the diphenylhy- rash resolved. Administration of prednisone was dantoin was stopped on July 9. A peritoneal dial- discontinued after one month without a relapse ysis was done on July 8 and hydrocortisone ther- of the clinical illness. apy begun on July 10. The patient died suddenly The patient was readmitted to hospital in Feb- on July 12 with no preceding change in clinical ruary 1975 for a controlled challenge with allo- status. purinol. He was taking no medications and results At the time of autopsy a generalized, bullous, of repeat hepatic and renal tests were within nor- exfoliative dermatitis was present, involving the mal limits. After obtaining informed consent, 100 skin, external genitalia and oral mucosa. Micro- mg of allopurinol was given orally. Three hours scopically skin changes were noted that were con- later generalized pruritus and a temperature of sistent with toxic epidermal necrolysis. Dissemi- 102°F (38.8°C) developed. The fever subsided nated intravascular thrombi with and without within 24 hours, but a mild exfoliating dermatitis vasculitis were seen in numerous organs. A sys- developed four days later. The rash cleared in temic
