CASE REPORTS
KEYWORDS: allopurinol, renal, patient, skin, present, case, med, salt, rash, liver, day, vasculitis, administration, hepatic, fever


intravascular thrombi with and without within 24 hours, but a mild exfoliating dermatitis vasculitis were seen in numerous organs. A sys- developed four days later. The rash cleared in temic vasculitis, characterized by fibrinoid ne- one week without treatment. Results of serial crosis, perivascular round cell infiltration, subinti- hepatic and renal function tests were within nor- mal proliferation, sclerosis and hyalinization of mal limits, with the only laboratory abnormality capillaries, arterioles, small arteries and venules, being a leukocytosis without eosinophilia. was present in the breast, pancreas, liver, kidneys, CASE 2. A 59-year-old man was first admitted prostate, testes, spleen and adrenals (Figure 2). to LAC-USCMC in May 1973 because of syncope. Segmental glomerulonephritis was also present; He was known to be diabetic and taking insulin the liver showed minimal pathology. and also took hydrochlorothiazide formild hyper- CASE 3. 67-year-old black man was followed tension. The syncopal episode was thought to be at LAC-USCMC since 1964 for adult onset diabetes secondary to an idiopathic seizure disorder and mellitus, mild hypertension, organic heart disease administration of diphenylhydantoin, 300 mg per and glaucoma. He had received hydrochloro- day, was begun. Mild heart failure was treated thiazide, digoxin, potassium chloride and alpha- with digoxin, and because of an elevated serum methyldopa for several years. Administration of uric acid (10.8 mg per 100 ml), administration allopurinol, 300 mg a day, was begun on January THE WESTERN JOURNAL OF MEDICINE 145 CASE REPORTS days after beginning administration of prednisone the urine output began increasing, renal function improved and the skin rash disappeared. In early May 1975 the prednisone was withdrawn without relapse. Discussion Nine cases of hypersensitivity reaction to allo- purinol similar to the current three cases have been reported.9-'2 All of the salient clinical fea- tures are present in our three cases. The onset of illness was about four weeks after institution of therapy with allopurinol and it began with fever and pruritus or dermatitis-or both. Exfoliating dermatitis and renal failure became the dominant Figure 2.-Section from case 2 with arterioles in the present, was more variable in its severity. Eosino- periadrenal fat showing fibrinoid necrosis and peri- philia was present in eight of the nine previously vascular inflammatory cell infiltration. Paraffin section with hematoxylin and eosin stain; reduced from original described cases but was seen in only one (case 2) magnification X350. of our patients.9-'2 The skin and renal disease progressed despite discontinuation of
