CASE REPORTS
KEYWORDS: allopurinol, renal, patient, skin, present, case, med, salt, rash, liver, day, vasculitis, administration, hepatic, fever


and eosin stain; reduced from original described cases but was seen in only one (case 2) magnification X350. of our patients.9-'2 The skin and renal disease progressed despite discontinuation of allopurinol LAC-USCMC on February 3 with a three-day his- until steroid therapywas instituted. The dermatitis tory of fever and deteriorating mental status. On and renal failure are secondary to a systemic admission, bodytemperaturewas 100°F(37.7°C). vasculitis and segmental glomerulonephritis.9"0"l2 He was slightly obtunded; the liver was palpable The hepatic lesion is not consistent and has varied 2 cm below the right costal margin and there from mild portal inflammation to centrilobular was an erythematous scaling rash on his face. necrosis."1"2 Administration of all medications, including allo- In the cases being described and in the previ- purinol, was discontinued on admission. Analysis ously reported cases most patients were taking of urine showed 1 + to 2+ albuminuria, occa- several drugs, making it difficult to establish a sional leukocytes, and red blood cells and a few cause and effect relationship with allopurinol. The granular casts. Neutropenia developed, with the frequent use of thiazide diuretics in these patients maximum depression occurring on the 11th hos- (six out of nine) has led one author to suggest pital day (absolute neutrophil count 513 per cu that they may contribute to the development of mm). By the 14th hospital day the neutropenia the allergic reaction.'2 The proven sensitivity to had spontaneously resolved. Eosinophilia was allopurinol in case 1 shows that allopurinol alone never present. can cause two (fever and skin rash) andprobably A liver biopsy was carried out on the third all of the features seen in the above cases. The hospital day. The portal tracts were widened by failure to detect any abnormalities in hepatic and increase in connective tissue and infiltration by renal tests after challenge with allopurinol prob- round cells and polymorphonuclear leukocytes. ably reflects the brief exposure to the drug, as in Epithelioid granulomata were present in the peri- one reported case an inadvertent two-day chal- portal areas. lenge in an acutely ill patient resulted in worsen- The patient's initial hospital course was marked ing of his renal function." by fever, decreasing renal function and oliguria. The acquired hypersensitivity in these patients Numerous antibiotics were given during his stay could be directed against a metabolic product of blood and urine cultures revealed no growth. One two hours while its major metabolic product, oxi-
