Pericarditis overview
KEYWORDS: pericarditis, pericardial, pericardium, cardiac, fluid, heart, include, patients, chest, tamponade, effusion, acute, pericardiocentesis, constrictive pericarditis, constrictive


Overview Pericarditis is a condition in which the sac-like covering surrounding the heart (the pericardium) becomes inflamed. Symptoms of pericarditis include chest pain which increases with deep breathing and lying flat. Historical Perspective The pericardium is a double-walled sac that contains the heart and the roots of the great vessels. Morphologically, it is a conical-shaped, double-walled fibro-serous membrane. It rests posteriorly to the sternum at the level of second to sixth costal cartilages and T5-T8 vertebrae. Classification Pericarditis may be classified according to duration of the disease and recurrence into acute, Incessant, recurrent and chronic. Moreover, pericarditis can be classified based on the etiology in two groups of infectious and non-infectious causes. Pathophysiology Pericarditis is inflammation of the pericardium, which is the double-walled sac that contains the heart and the roots of the great vessels. There can be an accompanying accumulation of fluid that can be either serous (free flowing fluid) or fibrinous (an exudate, which is a thick fluid composed of proteins, fibrin strands, inflammatory cells, cell breakdown products, and sometimes bacteria). Vascular congestion of the pericardium is also present. The underlying myocardium may or may not be inflamed as well. If the myocardium is involved in the inflammatory process, it is called myopericarditis, and CK and troponin levels may be elevated. Cardiotropic viruses usually spread to the myocardium and pericardium hematogenously and cause acute inflammation with infiltration of polymorphonuclear (PMN) leukocytes and pericardial vascularization. Most patients with viral pericarditis recover completely with few developing recurrences. Some patients develop constrictive pericarditis which could be disabling. Bacterial pericarditis results from contiguous spread of infection within the chest, either de novo or after surgery or trauma, spread from infective endocarditis, hematogenous, or direct inoculation as a result of penetrating injury or cardiothoracic surgery. Causes The causes of pericarditis can be divided into infectious and non-infectious ones. Infectious causes include bacterial, viral, fungal and, parasitic. While, non-infectious causes include autoimmune, neoplastic, metabolic, traumatic and iatrogenic, and drug-related. Acute myocardial infarction, Addisonian crisis, aortic dissection and rupture, blunt or penetrating chest trauma, esophageal perforation, gastric perforation, and myocardial rupture are life threatening causes of pericarditis. Common causes of pericarditis include viral, bacterial organisms, neoplasms, autoimmune and renal failure. Differentiating Pericarditis from other Diseases Pericarditis must be differentiated from diseases presenting with chest pain, shortness of breath and tachypnea which include myocardial infarction, pulmonary embolism, congestive heart failure, pneumonia, vasculitis, and chronic obstructive pulmonary
