Pericarditis overview
KEYWORDS: pericarditis, pericardial, pericardium, cardiac, fluid, heart, include, patients, chest, tamponade, effusion, acute, pericardiocentesis, constrictive pericarditis, constrictive


Pericarditis must be differentiated from diseases presenting with chest pain, shortness of breath and tachypnea which include myocardial infarction, pulmonary embolism, congestive heart failure, pneumonia, vasculitis, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Manifestation of the pericarditis can help in differentiation from myocardial infarction. Moreover, other differential diagnosis include aortic stenosis, coronary artery vasospasm, esophageal rupture, esophageal spasm, esophagitis,acute gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux disease, and peptic ulcer disease should be considered. Epidemiology and Demographics The incidence of acute pericarditis is approximately 27.7 per 100,000 individuals annually. The recurrence of disease is seen in almost 30% of patients after first episode. The mortality rate of acute pericarditis is approximately 1.1% in developed countries. Patients of all age groups may develop acute pericarditis. Although it commonly affects men in 20 to 50 years of age. Pericarditis in developed countries is most commonly due to malignancy or viral infection. It usually follows respiratory infections, most commonly echovirus or coxsackie virus. In children, it is most commonly caused by adenovirus or coxsackie virus. In developing countries pericarditis is usually secondary to tuberculosis or HIV infection. Tuberculous pericarditis, caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis, is found in approximately 1% of all autopsied cases of TB and in 1% to 2% of instances of pulmonary TB. Risk Factors Screening There is insufficient evidence to recommend routine screening for pericarditis. Natural History, Complications and Prognosis Pericarditis is often self-limited and most people recover in 2 weeks to 3 months. However, the condition can be complicated by significant fluid buildup around the heart (a pericardial effusion or cardiac tamponade) and may require urgent intervention including pericardiocentesis. If scarring of the sac around the heart (the pericardium) occurs, then this is called constrictive pericarditis which may require surgical stripping of the scar. Diagnosis Diagnostic Study of Choice History and Symptoms Patients with pericarditis commonly present with chest pain that changes with position, cough, fever, breathlessness, and fatigue are the other common symptoms. Less common symptoms include palpitations, hiccup, odynophagia, faint, dizziness, and abdominal pain which is seen mostly in children. Physical Examination A careful physical examination must be performed to exclude the presence of cardiac tamponade, a dangerous complication of pericarditis. If cardiac tamponade is present, then pulsus paradoxus, hypotension, an elevated jugular venous pressure and peripheral edema may be present. Laboratory Findings Non-specific markers of inflammation are generally elevated in pericarditis. These include the leukocyte count, C-reactive protein, and ESR. The cardiac
