Pericarditis overview
KEYWORDS: pericarditis, pericardial, pericardium, cardiac, fluid, heart, include, patients, chest, tamponade, effusion, acute, pericardiocentesis, constrictive pericarditis, constrictive


venous pressure and peripheral edema may be present. Laboratory Findings Non-specific markers of inflammation are generally elevated in pericarditis. These include the leukocyte count, C-reactive protein, and ESR. The cardiac troponin is elevated if there is an injury to the underlying myocardium, a condition termed as myopericarditis. Diagnostic pericardiocentesis and biopsy help in identifying an underlying infectious or malignant process.Non-specific markers of inflammation are generally elevated in pericarditis. These include the leukocyte count, C-reactive protein, and ESR. The cardiac troponin is elevated if there is an injury to the underlying myocardium, a condition termed as myopericarditis. Diagnostic pericardiocentesis and biopsy help in identifying an underlying infectious or malignant process. Electrocardiogram In the presence of a large effusion or tamponade, there may be diminished voltage and electrical alternans (alternation of QRS complex amplitude or axis between beats). X-ray A flask-shaped, enlarged cardiac silhouette will be observed on chest x-ray in pericarditis complicated with pericardial effusion or tamponade. A mass may also be seen when malignancy is the cause. Calcification of pericardium may be noted in constrictive pericarditis. Echocardiography and Ultrasound Echocardiography is generally performed to assess for the presence of a pericardial effusion and to assess and monitor its size. Echocardiography is critical in confirming the clinical suspicion cardiac tamponade. CT scan On CT, pericardial fluid adds to the thickness of pericardium as both have the similar signal intensities. In pericarditis, pericardium can generate an intermediate signal intensity and may enhance after gadolinium administration. In pericardial effusion, hemorrhagic effusions can be differentiated from a transudate or an exudate based on signal characteristics (high signal on T1- weighted images) or density (high-density clot on CT). CT is superior to MRI in the visualization of pericardial calcification which is often seen in the patient with pericardial constriction. CT imaging also helps in detecting the presence of tumors and the extent of metastasis of the neoplasm. MRI On MRI, normal pericardium appears as a thin dark band that is bordered by a bright band on both sides on T1 weighted spin imaging. These surrounding bright bands are associated with the surrounding epicardial and pericardial fat. Following the administration of gadolinium, pericardium may appear thick and inflamed in the setting of pericarditis. Lower intensity signal is observed in constrictive pericarditis than in acute pericarditis. Comprehensive visualization of the LV endocardium and the physiologic consequences of abnormal pericardial thickening can also be obtained without exposure to
