Pericarditis overview
KEYWORDS: pericarditis, pericardial, pericardium, cardiac, fluid, heart, include, patients, chest, tamponade, effusion, acute, pericardiocentesis, constrictive pericarditis, constrictive


is observed in constrictive pericarditis than in acute pericarditis. Comprehensive visualization of the LV endocardium and the physiologic consequences of abnormal pericardial thickening can also be obtained without exposure to ionizing radiation. Other Imaging Findings Other diagnostic studies Echocardiography guided pericardiocentesis may be helpful in the diagnosis of the pericarditis etiology. Pericardial fluid aspiration for cytology and immunohistochemistry analysis should be done in pericarditis with effusion. Pericardiocentesis should be done in patients with high susceptibility of neoplastic pericarditis which cytology analysis for malignancy was negative. Treatment Medical Therapy The management of pericarditis depends on whether the patient has an uncomplicated vs. complicated disease course. Uncomplicated pericarditis is generally treated with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, such as Ibuprofen in cases of either viral or idiopathic pericarditis, and Aspirin in cases of post-MI pericarditis. Pericarditis complicated with either effusion or cardiac tamponade is generally treated with urgent pericardiocentesis in the case of cardiac tamponade, antibiotics in the case of purulent pericardial effusion, and either steroids or colchicine among patients with recurrent or refractory disease. Interventions Surgery Pericardiocentesis Percutaneous pericardiocentesis is a procedure where fluid is aspirated from the pericardium (the sac enveloping the heart) using a needle via a percutaneous approach. Pericardiocentesis can provide a diagnostic sampling of pericardial fluid and can be used as a therapeutic maneuver to evacuate pericardial fluid and lower the pericardial pressure. Pericardial Window Creation of a pericardial window is a cardiac surgical procedure in which an opening is made in the pericardium to drain fluid that has accumulated around the heart by creating a fistula or "window" from the pericardial space to the peritoneal cavity. Flow of fluid into the peritoneal cavity prevents the accumulation of fluid around the heart (a pericardial effusion), which might cause compression and impaired filling of the heart (cardiac tamponade), a dangerous complication. The procedure is performed for both diagnostic and therapeutic purposes. The creation of a pericardial window is usually performed by a cardiac surgeon or thoracic surgeon who makes an incision, commonly sub-xiphoid, and cuts a small hole in the pericardium. This surgery is performed with local anesthesia. An incision is made either below the sternum, or alternately between the ribs of the left chest. The resection can be with scissors, cautery, a stapling device, or a harmonic scalpel, with no one technique demonstrably better than another. It is best to have a combination of techniques available to resect the
