Neonatal Hyperthyroidism
KEYWORDS: hyperthyroidism, neonatal, thyroid, tsh, receptor, tsh receptor, fetal, antibodies, neonatal hyperthyroidism, disease, maternal, graves, trab, graves disease, antithyroid


INTRODUCTION Neonatal hyperthyroidism in most cases is transient and results from the transplacental passage of maternal stimulating TSH receptor antibodies (TRAb) known as neonatal Graves’ disease (GD). Permanent non autoimmune neonatal hyperthyroidism is rare and is due to activating mutations of TSH receptor or due to somatic activating mutations in the stimulatory alpha subunit of the guanine nucleotide-binding protein (GNAS gene) in McCune-Albright syndrome. Exposure to topical iodine has also been reported as a rare cause of hyperthyroidism in newborns. A review addressing neonatal thyrotoxicosis has been recently published. TRANSIENT NEONATAL HYPERTHYROIDISM Neonatal Graves’ disease (GD) is usually a self-limited disease, but it can be life threatening and permanently damage the brain. Neonatal GD is caused by transplacental passage of TSH receptor antibodies (TRAb) with stimulatory activity. TRAb are Immunoglobulin of G class and freely cross the placenta. Different types of TRAb can be found: TRAb that bind to the TSH receptor and stimulates the production of thyroid hormones, (TSH receptor stimulating antibodies, TSI), TRAb that bind to the TSH receptor, do not stimulate the production of thyroid hormones and can block the binding of TSH (TSH receptor blocking antibodies TBI). Hyperthyroidism develops only in babies born to mothers with the most potent stimulatory activity in serum. This corresponds to 1-2% of mothers with Graves’ disease, or 1 in 50,000 newborns, an incidence that is approximately four times higher than is that for transient neonatal hypothyroidism due to maternal TSH receptor blocking antibodies. Some mothers have mixtures of stimulating and blocking antibodies in their circulation, the relative proportion of which may change over time. Not surprisingly, the clinical picture in the fetus and neonate of these mothers is more complex and depends not only on the relative proportion of each activity in the maternal circulation at any one time but on the rate of their clearance from the neonatal circulation postpartum. Occasionally, neonatal hyperthyroidism may even occur in infants born to hypothyroid mothers. A prospective study showed that 40% of patients treated for Graves’ disease with radioactive iodine had TRAb detectable after 5 years (13). In these situations, the maternal thyroid has been destroyed either by prior radioablation, surgery, or by coincident destructive autoimmune processes so that potent thyroid stimulating antibodies, present in the maternal circulation, are silent in contrast to the neonate whose thyroid gland is normal. Persistence of TRAb after thyroidectomy is higher in females with Graves’ ophthalmopathy
