Neonatal Hyperthyroidism
KEYWORDS: hyperthyroidism, neonatal, thyroid, tsh, receptor, tsh receptor, fetal, antibodies, neonatal hyperthyroidism, disease, maternal, graves, trab, graves disease, antithyroid


antibodies, present in the maternal circulation, are silent in contrast to the neonate whose thyroid gland is normal. Persistence of TRAb after thyroidectomy is higher in females with Graves’ ophthalmopathy or smokers. Fetal/neonatal thyrotoxicosis can occur also in newborn from hypothyroid mothers with chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis. CLINICAL MANIFESTATIONS TABLE 1. Situations That Should Prompt Consideration of Neonatal Hyperthyroidism View in own window Unexplained tachycardia, goiter or stare Unexplained petechiae, hyperbilirubinemia, or hepatosplenomegaly History of persistently high TSH receptor antibody titer in mother during pregnancy History of persistently high requirement for antithyroid medication in mother during pregnancy History of thyroid ablation for hyperthyroidism in mother History of previously affected sibling Maternal TSH receptor antibody-mediated hyperthyroidism may present in utero. Fetal hyperthyroidism is suspected in the presence of fetal tachycardia (pulse greater than 160/min) especially if there is evidence of failure to thrive. Obstetric complications are common. Fetal goiter (fetal neck circumference >95%) can by monitored by ultrasound using nomograms for fetal thyroid growth. Fetal goiter can cause esophageal and/or tracheal obstructions and polyhydramnios. Fetal goiter can also be due to transplacental passage of antithyroid drugs that cause hypothyroidism in the fetus. TABLE 2. Clinical Manifestations in the Fetus View in own window Unexplained tachycardia, Failure to thrive Intrauterine growth retardation Goiter Advanced bone age Prematurity Craniosynostosis, microcephaly Fetal death In the neonate infant typically, the onset is during the first one two weeks of life but can occur by 45 days. This is due both to the clearance of maternally administered antithyroid drug (propylthiouracil- PTU, methimazole- MMI, or carbimazole) from the infant ’s circulation and to the increased conversion of T4 to the more metabolically active T3 after birth. Rarely, as noted earlier, the onset of neonatal hyperthyroidism may be delayed until later if higher affinity blocking antibodies are also present. In the newborn infant, characteristic signs and symptoms include tachycardia, irritability, poor weight gain, and prominent eyes. Goiter, when present, may be related to maternal antithyroid drug treatment as well as to the neonatal Graves’ disease itself. Rarely, infants with neonatal Graves’ disease present with thrombocytopenia, jaundice, hepatosplenomegaly, and hypoprothrombinemia, a picture that may be confused with congenital infections such as toxoplasmosis, rubella, or cytomegalovirus. In addition, arrhythmias and cardiac failure may develop and may cause death, particularly if treatment is delayed or inadequate. In addition to a significant mortality rate that approximates 20% in some older series, untreated fetal
