Neonatal Hyperthyroidism
KEYWORDS: hyperthyroidism, neonatal, thyroid, tsh, receptor, tsh receptor, fetal, antibodies, neonatal hyperthyroidism, disease, maternal, graves, trab, graves disease, antithyroid


failure may develop and may cause death, particularly if treatment is delayed or inadequate. In addition to a significant mortality rate that approximates 20% in some older series, untreated fetal and neonatal hyperthyroidism is associated with deleterious long-term consequences, including premature closure of the cranial sutures (cranial synostosis), failure to thrive, and developmental delay. The half-life of TSH receptor antibodies is 1 to 2 weeks. The duration of neonatal hyperthyroidism, a function of antibody potency and the rate of their metabolic clearance, is usually 2 to 3 months but may be longer. TABLE 3. Clinical Manifestations in the Neonate View in own window Irritability, hyperexcitability, sleep disorders Tachycardia, hypertension, cardiac failure Flushing, sweating Respiratory distress, pulmonary hypertension Goiter, stare Feeding difficulties, increased appetite but no/poor weight gain Diarrhea Unexplained petechiae, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice, or hepatosplenomegaly Craniosynostosis, microcephaly, Death LABORATORY EVALUATION The recent guidelines for management of hyperthyroidism and the updated guidelines for the management of thyroid disease during pregnancy released from the American Thyroid Association ATA both suggest determining TRAb levels in pregnant women with Graves’ disease at 18-22 weeks instead of 20-24 weeks of gestation because a severe case of fetal Graves’ disease has occurred at 18 weeks of pregnancy. Because of the importance of early diagnosis and treatment, infants at risk for neonatal hyperthyroidism should undergo both clinical and biochemical assessment as soon as possible. All neonates born from a woman with TRAb positivity in pregnancy should undergo determination of TRAb from cord blood at delivery. If TRAb is negative, the risk to neonatal hyperthyroidism is negligible (Sensitivity is around 100%). FT3, FT4 and TSH determination from cord blood did not predict neonatal hyperthyroidism. Increases in FT4 on day 3 to 5 seems to better indicate the onset of hyperthyroidism. Situations that should prompt consideration of neonatal hyperthyroidism are listed in Table 1 . A high index of suspicion is necessary in babies of women who have had thyroid ablation because in them a high titer of TSH receptor antibodies would not be evident clinically. Similarly, women with persistently elevated TSH receptor antibodies and with a high requirement for antithyroid medication are at an increased risk of having an affected child. The diagnosis of hyperthyroidism is confirmed by the demonstration of an increased concentration of circulating T4 (and free T4, and T3, if possible) accompanied by a suppressed TSH level in neonatal or fetal blood. Results should be compared
