Neonatal Hyperthyroidism
KEYWORDS: hyperthyroidism, neonatal, thyroid, tsh, receptor, tsh receptor, fetal, antibodies, neonatal hyperthyroidism, disease, maternal, graves, trab, graves disease, antithyroid


demonstration of an increased concentration of circulating T4 (and free T4, and T3, if possible) accompanied by a suppressed TSH level in neonatal or fetal blood. Results should be compared with normal values during gestation. Fetal ultrasonography may be helpful in detecting the presence of a fetal goiter and in monitoring fetal growth. Demonstration in the baby or mother of a high titer of TSH receptor antibodies will confirm the etiology of the hyperthyroidism and, in babies whose thyroid function testing is normal initially, indicate the degree to which the baby is at risk. In general, babies likely to become hyperthyroid have the highest TSH receptor antibody titer but levels of maternal TRAb in the serum as low as 4.4 U/L has been associated with neonatal thyrotoxicosis. If TSH receptor antibodies are not detectable, the baby is very unlikely to become hyperthyroid. In the latter case, it can be anticipated that the baby will be euthyroid, have transient hypothalamic-pituitary suppression, or have a transiently elevated TSH, depending on the relative contribution of maternal hyperthyroidism versus the effects of maternal antithyroid medication, respectively. Close follow up of all babies with abnormal thyroid function tests or detectable TSH receptor antibodies is mandatory. THERAPY In the fetus, treatment is accomplished by maternal administration of antithyroid medication. Until recently PTU was the preferred drug for pregnant women in North America, but current recommendations suggest the use of MMI rather than PTU after the first trimester because of concerns about potential PTU-induced hepatotoxicity. The goals of therapy are to utilize the minimal dosage necessary to normalize the fetal heart rate and render the mother euthyroid or slightly hyperthyroid. In the neonate MMI (0.25 to 1.0 mg/kg/day) has been used initially in 3 divided doses. If the hyperthyroidism is severe, a strong iodine solution (Lugol’s solution or SSKI, 1 drop every 8 hours) is added to block the release of thyroid hormone immediately. Often the effect of MMI is not as delayed in infants as it is in older children or adults, a consequence of decreased intrathyroidal thyroid hormone storage. Therapy with both antithyroid drug and iodine is adjusted subsequently, depending on the response. Propranolol (2 mg/kg/day in 2 or 3 divided doses) is added if sympathetic overstimulation is severe, particularly in the presence of pronounced tachycardia. If cardiac failure develops, treatment with digoxin should be initiated, and propranolol should be discontinued. Rarely, prednisone (2 mg/kg/day)
