Neonatal Hyperthyroidism
KEYWORDS: hyperthyroidism, neonatal, thyroid, tsh, receptor, tsh receptor, fetal, antibodies, neonatal hyperthyroidism, disease, maternal, graves, trab, graves disease, antithyroid


sympathetic overstimulation is severe, particularly in the presence of pronounced tachycardia. If cardiac failure develops, treatment with digoxin should be initiated, and propranolol should be discontinued. Rarely, prednisone (2 mg/kg/day) is added for immediate inhibition of thyroid hormone secretion. Measurement of TSH receptor antibodies in treated babies may be helpful in predicting when antithyroid medication can be safely discontinued. Lactating mothers on antithyroid medication can continue nursing as long as the dosage of PTU or MMI does not exceed 400 mg or 40 mg, respectively. The milk/serum ratio of PTU is 1/10 that of MMI, a consequence of pH differences and increased protein binding, so one might anticipate less transmission to the infant, but concerns about potential PTU toxicity need to be considered. At higher dosages of antithyroid medication, close supervision of the infant is advisable. A review about management of neonates born to mothers with Graves’ disease has been recently published. PERMANENT NEONATAL HYPERTHYROIDISM Rarely, neonatal hyperthyroidism is permanent and is due to a germline mutation in the TSH receptor (TSH-R) resulting in its constitutive activation. A gain of function mutation of the TSH-R should be suspected if persistent neonatal hyperthyroidism occurs in the absence of detectable TSH-R antibodies in the maternal circulation. Prematurity, low birth weight, and advanced bone age are common. Most cases result from a mutation in exon 10 which encodes the transmembrane domain and intracytoplasmic tail of the TSH-R, a member of the G protein coupled receptor superfamily. Less frequently, a mutation encoding the extracellular domain has been described. An autosomal dominant inheritance has been noted in many of these infants; other cases have been sporadic, arising from a de novo mutation. Early recognition is important because the thyroid function of affected infants is frequently difficult to manage medically and, when diagnosis and therapy is delayed, irreversible sequelae, such as cranial synostosis and developmental delay may result. For this reason, early, aggressive therapy with either thyroidectomy or even radioablation has been recommended. Two clinical forms were described: the first one is the “familial non-autoimmune autosomal dominant hyperthyroidism” (FNAH). High variable age of manifestation from neonatal period to 60 years, with variability also within the same family is reported. Goiter is present in children, with nodules in older age. The second one is “Persistent sporadic congenital non autoimmune hyperthyroidism” (PSNAH) includes forms with sporadic (de novo) germline mutations in the TSH-R. PSNAH is characterized by fetal-neonatal
