Bookshelf_NBK603087
KEYWORDS: disorder, individuals, ctcf-related, ctcf-related disorder, ctcf, affected, pathogenic, reported, developmental, feeding, anomalies, genetic, intellectual, affected individuals, issues


nutritional status and safety of oral intake; monitor for gastroesophageal reflux disease and/or constipation; assess for new manifestations such as seizures or changes in tone; monitor developmental progress and educational needs; assess for behavioral issues or changes in behavior; monitor for signs/symptoms of sleep disturbance; assess for frequent infections. Assess for signs and symptoms of scoliosis at least annually until skeletal maturity. Dental and ophthalmology evaluations at least annually or as clinically indicated. Annual audiology evaluation through childhood or as clinically indicated. No tumor screening protocol for individuals with CTCF-related disorder has been developed. Pregnancy management: In general, women with epilepsy or a seizure disorder of any cause are at greater risk for mortality during pregnancy than pregnant women without a seizure disorder; use of anti-seizure medication (ASM) during pregnancy reduces this risk. However, exposure to ASMs may increase the risk for adverse fetal outcome (depending on the drug used, the dose, and the stage of pregnancy at which medication is taken). Discussion of the risks and benefits of using a given ASM during pregnancy should ideally take place prior to conception. Transitioning to a lower-risk medication prior to or during pregnancy may be possible. Genetic counseling CTCF-related disorder is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. Approximately 80% of individuals with CTCF-related disorder whose parents have undergone molecular genetic testing have the disorder as the result of a de novo CTCF pathogenic variant. If a parent of the proband is known to have the pathogenic variant identified in the proband, the risk to the sibs of inheriting the pathogenic variant is 50%. Once the CTCF pathogenic variant has been identified in an affected family member, prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing are possible. Diagnosis No consensus clinical diagnostic criteria for CTCF-related disorder have been published. Suggestive Findings CTCF-related disorder should be considered in probands with the following clinical findings and family history. Clinical findings • Mild-to-profound developmental delay (DD) or intellectual disability (ID) AND • Any of the following features presenting in infancy or childhood: ⚬ Hypotonia ⚬ Feeding difficulties ⚬ Slow growth ⚬ Neurobehavioral/psychiatric manifestations, including autism spectrum disorder (ASD), attention- deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), aggression, anxiety, and/or destructive behaviors ⚬ Ophthalmologic involvement, including strabismus, hypermetropia, astigmatism, amblyopia, and/or myopia ⚬ Sensorineural or conductive hearing loss ⚬ Nonspecific dysmorphic features (See Clinical Description.) CTCF-Related Disorder 3 ⚬ Cleft palate ⚬ Congenital heart defects ⚬ Tooth anomalies, such as crowded teeth and
