Bookshelf_NBK603087
KEYWORDS: disorder, individuals, ctcf-related, ctcf-related disorder, ctcf, affected, pathogenic, reported, developmental, feeding, anomalies, genetic, intellectual, affected individuals, issues


Sensorineural or conductive hearing loss ⚬ Nonspecific dysmorphic features (See Clinical Description.) CTCF-Related Disorder 3 ⚬ Cleft palate ⚬ Congenital heart defects ⚬ Tooth anomalies, such as crowded teeth and abnormal decay ⚬ Genitourinary anomalies ⚬ Sleep disturbance ⚬ Recurrent infections ⚬ Seizures Family history. Because CTCF-related disorder is typically caused by a de novo pathogenic variant, most probands represent a simplex case (i.e., a single occurrence in a family). Rarely, the family history may be consistent with autosomal dominant inheritance (e.g., affected males and females in multiple generations). Establishing the Diagnosis The diagnosis of CTCF-related disorder is established in a proband with suggestive findings and a heterozygous pathogenic (or likely pathogenic) variant in CTCF identified by molecular genetic testing (see Table 1). Note: (1) Per ACMG/AMP variant interpretation guidelines, the terms "pathogenic variant" and "likely be used for clinical decision making [Richards et al 2015]. Reference to "pathogenic variants" in this GeneReview is understood to include likely pathogenic variants. (2) Identification of a heterozygous CTCF variant of uncertain significance does not establish or rule out the diagnosis. Molecular genetic testing in a child with developmental delay or an older individual with intellectual disability may begin with exome sequencing / genome sequencing [Manickam et al 2021, van der Sanden et al 2023]. Other options include use of chromosomal microarray analysis (CMA) or a multigene panel. Note: Single-gene testing (sequence analysis of CTCF, followed by gene-targeted deletion/duplication analysis) is rarely useful and typically NOT recommended. • An intellectual disability multigene panel that includes CTCF and other genes of interest (see Differentia l ) is most likely to identify the genetic cause of the condition in a person with a nondiagnostic Diagnosis CMA while limiting identification of variants of uncertain significance and pathogenic variants in genes that do not explain the underlying phenotype. Note: (1) The genes included in the panel and the diagnostic sensitivity of the testing used for each gene vary by laboratory and are likely to change over time. (2) Some multigene panels may include genes not associated with the condition discussed in this GeneReview. Of note, given the rarity of CTCF-related disorder, some panels for intellectual disability may not include this gene. (3) In some laboratories, panel options may include a custom laboratory-designed panel and/or custom phenotype-focused exome analysis that includes genes specified by the clinician. (4) Methods used in a panel may include sequence analysis, deletion/duplication analysis,
