Bookshelf_NBK603087
KEYWORDS: disorder, individuals, ctcf-related, ctcf-related disorder, ctcf, affected, pathogenic, reported, developmental, feeding, anomalies, genetic, intellectual, affected individuals, issues


• Destructive behaviors • Oppositional behaviors • Self-injurious behaviors Hypotonia has been described in just under half of affected individuals. Hypotonia may contribute to both motor and feeding issues. Gastrointestinal/feeding. Infant feeding difficulties are common. Contributing factors may include dysphagia, cleft palate, and hypotonia. A minority of affected individuals have required placement of a feeding tube (see Management). • Feeding problems are most commonly reported in early infancy, with some individuals experiencing resolution of feeding problems at older ages, most with the removal of their feeding tube. • About 17% of affected individuals experience constipation. • Other reported functional gastrointestinal complications include gastroesophageal reflux disease, dysphagia, and irritable bowel syndrome. • Gastrointestinal malformations may include intestinal malrotation and rectal duplication. 6 GeneReviews ® Growth. In affected individuals, weight is the most consistently impacted growth parameter, with about 29% of affected individuals demonstrating low weight (2 standard deviations below the mean for age and sex). In initial publications [Gregor et al 2013], microcephaly and short stature were listed as characteristic features of individuals with CTCF-related disorder; however, only about one fourth of affected individuals have short stature (24/102) and/or microcephaly (27/102). Facial features. No consistent dysmorphic features have been observed across described individuals with CTCF- related disorder to suggest a recognizable facial phenotype. If present, dysmorphic features are nonspe cific. Individuals with CTCF-related disorder can commonly demonstrate widely spaced and/or deep-set eyes, broad nasal bridge, broad nasal tip, and thin vermilion of the upper lip. Ophthalmologic involvement. Strabismus or refractive errors were found in more than half of individuals. While strabismus is the most commonly reported issue, other reported problems include: • Hypermetropia • Astigmatism • Amblyopia • Myopia • Ptosis Hearing impairment has also been reported in affected individuals. Both unilateral and bilateral hearing loss have been reported. Hearing loss may also be sensorineural and/or conductive in nature. Many reported individuals with CTCF-related disorder who have hearing loss have benefited from the use of hearing aids (see ). Management Craniofacial/dental. About one quarter of affected individuals have been reported to have a cleft palate, and about one third of affected individuals have been found to have dental anomalies unrelated to cleft palate. Other reported dental issues include: • Impacted teeth • Increased incidence of dental decay • Ectopic teeth • Absent secondary teeth • Abnormal shape of teeth • Discoloration of teeth • Midline misalignment Musculoskeletal features have been reported
