Bookshelf_NBK603087
KEYWORDS: disorder, individuals, ctcf-related, ctcf-related disorder, ctcf, affected, pathogenic, reported, developmental, feeding, anomalies, genetic, intellectual, affected individuals, issues


data on progression of this finding is limited.) • Bicuspid aortic valve Seizures are a less common finding in affected individuals, with fewer than 20% experiencing seizures. In those seizures, with onset ranging from early infancy to primary school age (age ~6 years) to adolescence (one individual had initial seizure at age 15 years). Reported seizure types include: • Febrile seizures • Generalized tonic-clonic seizures • Tonic seizures • Petit mal seizures Neuroimaging. Brain MRI has been normal in most affected individuals who have undergone imaging; however, some individuals have nonspecific findings, such as white matter abnormalities, gray matter 8 GeneReviews ® heterotopia, focal polymicrogyria, periventricular leukomalacia, focal simplified gyration, thin corpus callosum, and prominent lateral ventricles. One affected individual was reported to have mild but progressive cerebellar and cerebral atrophy [Valverde de Morales et al 2023]. Malignancy. At least four reported individuals with CTCF-related disorder developed Wilms tumor, with ages at diagnosis being one, two, four, and five years, respectively. One affected individual had bilateral Wilms tumor [Konrad et al 2019, Gargallo et al 2022, Valverde de Morales et al 2023]. However, there is no clear evidence of a significant predisposition for the development of cancer in individuals with CTCF-related disorder at this time. Therefore, no tumor screening protocol for individuals with CTCF-related disorder has been developed. Prognosis. It is unknown whether life span in CTCF-related disorder is abnormal. More than 16 adult individuals with CTCF-related disorder have been reported in the literature, with the oldest individual being age 34 years at the time of the report [Valverde de Morales et al 2023], demonstrating that survival into adulthood is possible. Since many adults with disabilities have not undergone advanced genetic testing, it is likely that adults with this condition are underrecognized and underreported. Genotype-Phenotype Correlations No consistent genotype-phenotype correlations have been identified [Valverde de Morales et al 2023]. Prevalence CTCF-related disorder is a rare disorder. Though the prevalence is unknown, 107 individuals from differen t countries (Canada, China, Denmark, England, France, Israel, Italy, Japan, Norway, Spain, United Arab Emirates, and United States) have been reported in the literature [Gargallo et al 2022, Temple et al 2022, Chen et al 2023, Lyu et al 2023, Valverde de Morales et al 2023]. As most reported affected individuals have been diagnosed recently using whole exome sequencing, this condition is likely underdiagnosed and underreported. Genetically Related (Allelic) Disorders No phenotypes other than those
