Bookshelf_NBK603087
KEYWORDS: disorder, individuals, ctcf-related, ctcf-related disorder, ctcf, affected, pathogenic, reported, developmental, feeding, anomalies, genetic, intellectual, affected individuals, issues


or younger at the time and both of whom had other cardiovascular findings (bicuspid aortic valve or pulmonary valve stenosis). It is unclear if individuals with CTCF- related disorder are at risk of progressive aortic dilatation. 2. It is unclear if individuals with CTCF-related disorder are at increased risk above the general population of developing Wilms tumor or any other malignancy. Though no specific guidelines for surveillance for Wilms tumor have been proposed, providers may consider educating families on the symptoms/signs of Wilms tumor. Evaluation of Relatives at Risk See Genetic Counseling for issues related to testing of at-risk relatives for genetic counseling purposes. Pregnancy Management Limited data is available on pregnancies for women with CTCF-related disorder. In general, women with epilepsy or a seizure disorder of any cause are at greater risk for mortality during pregnancy than pregnant women without a seizure disorder; use of anti-seizure medication (ASM) during pregnancy reduces this risk. However, exposure to ASMs may increase the risk for adverse fetal outcome (depending on the drug used, the dose, and the stage of pregnancy at which medication is taken). Nevertheless, the risk of an adverse outcome to the fetus from ASM exposure is often less than that associated with exposure to an untreated maternal seizure disorder. Therefore, use of ASMs to treat a maternal seizure disorder during pregnancy is typically recommended. Discussion of the risks and benefits of using a given ASM during pregnancy should ideally take place prior to conception. Transitioning to a lower-risk medication prior to or during pregnancy may be possible [Sarma et al 2016]. See MotherToBaby for further information on medication use during pregnancy. Therapies Under Investigation Search ClinicalTrials.gov in the US and EU Clinical Trials Register in Europe for access to information on clinical studies for a wide range of diseases and conditions. Note: There may not be clinical trials for this disorder. Genetic Counseling Genetic counseling is the process of providing individuals and families with information on the nature, mode(s) of inheritance, and implications of genetic disorders to help them make informed medical and personal decisions. Th e following section deals with genetic risk assessment and the use of family history and genetic testing to clarify genetic status for family members; it is not meant to address all personal, cultural, or ethical issues that may arise or to substitute for consultation with a genetics professional. —ED. CTCF-Related Disorder 15 Mode
