Bookshelf_NBK603087
KEYWORDS: disorder, individuals, ctcf-related, ctcf-related disorder, ctcf, affected, pathogenic, reported, developmental, feeding, anomalies, genetic, intellectual, affected individuals, issues


members; it is not meant to address all personal, cultural, or ethical issues that may arise or to substitute for consultation with a genetics professional. —ED. CTCF-Related Disorder 15 Mode of Inheritance CTCF-related disorder is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. Risk to Family Members Parents of a proband • Approximately 80% of individuals with CTCF-related disorder whose parents have undergone molecular genetic testing have the disorder as the result of a de novo CTCF pathogenic variant [Valverde de Morales et al 2023]. • To date, nine individuals diagnosed with CTCF-related disorder inherited a CTCF pathogenic variant from a typically asymptomatic parent. Two of the transmitting parents were mosaic for the detected pathogenic variants [Valverde de Morales et al 2023]. • Molecular genetic testing is recommended for the parents of the proband to evaluate their genetic status and inform recurrence risk assessment. • If the pathogenic variant identified in the proband is not identified in either parent and parental identity testing has confirmed biological maternity and paternity, the following possibilities should be considered: ⚬ The proband has a de novo pathogenic variant. ⚬ The proband inherited a pathogenic variant from a parent with germline (or somatic and germline) mosaicism. Note: Testing of parental leukocyte DNA may not detect all instances of somatic mosaicism and will not detect a pathogenic variant that is present in the germ (gonadal) cells only. • The family history of some individuals diagnosed with CTCF-related disorder may appear to be negative because of failure to recognize the disorder in family members or reduced penetrance in a heterozygous parent. Therefore, an apparently negative family history cannot be confirmed unless molecular genetic testing has demonstrated that neither parent is heterozygous for the pathogenic variant identified in the proband. Sibs of a proband. The risk to the sibs of the proband depends on the genetic status of the proband's parents: • If a parent of the proband is known to have the pathogenic variant identified in the proband, the risk to the sibs of inheriting the pathogenic variant is 50%. • If the CTCF pathogenic variant identified in the proband cannot be detected in the leukocyte DNA of either parent, the recurrence risk to sibs is slightly greater than that of the general population because of the possibility of parental germline mosaicism [Valverde de Morales et al 2023]. • If the parents have not been tested for the CTCF
