Bookshelf_NBK603087
KEYWORDS: disorder, individuals, ctcf-related, ctcf-related disorder, ctcf, affected, pathogenic, reported, developmental, feeding, anomalies, genetic, intellectual, affected individuals, issues


that of the general population because of the possibility of parental germline mosaicism [Valverde de Morales et al 2023]. • If the parents have not been tested for the CTCF pathogenic variant but are clinically unaffected, the risk to the sibs of a proband appears to be low. However, sibs of a proband with clinically unaffected parents are still presumed to be at increased risk for CTCF-related disorder because of the possibility of reduced penetrance in a heterozygous parent or the possibility of parental germline mosaicism. Offspring of a proband. Each child of an individual with CTCF-related disorder has a 50% chance of inheriting the CTCF pathogenic variant. Other family members. The risk to other family members depends on the status of the proband's parents: if a parent has the CTCF pathogenic variant, the parent's family members may be at risk. Related Genetic Counseling Issues Family planning • The optimal time for determination of genetic risk and discussion of the availability of prenatal/ preimplantation genetic testing is before pregnancy. 16 GeneReviews ® • It is appropriate to offer genetic counseling (including discussion of potential risks to offspring and reproductive options) to parents of affected individuals. Prenatal Testing and Preimplantation Genetic Testing Once the CTCF pathogenic variant has been identified in an affected family member, prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing are possible. Differences in perspective may exist among medical professionals and within families regarding the use of prenatal testing. While most centers would consider use of prenatal testing to be a personal decision, discussion of these issues may be helpful. Resources GeneReviews staff has selected the following disease-specific and/or umbrella support organizations and/or registries for the benefit of individuals with this disorder and their families. GeneReviews is not responsible for the • CDC - Child Development Phone: 800-232-4636 Developmental Disability Basics • MedlinePlus Intellectual Disability Molecular Genetics Information in the Molecular Genetics and OMIM tables may differ from that elsewhere in the GeneReview: tables may contain more recent information. —ED. Table A. CTCF-Related Disorder: Genes and Databases Gene Chromosome Locus Protein HGMD ClinVar CTCF 16q22.1 Transcriptional repressor CTCF CTCF CTCF Data are compiled from the following standard references: gene from HGNC; chromosome locus from OMIM; protein from UniProt. Table B. OMIM Entries for CTCF-Related Disorder (View All in OMIM) 604167 CCCTC-BINDING FACTOR; CTCF 615502 INTELLECTUAL DEVELOPMENTAL DISORDER, AUTOSOMAL DOMINANT 21; MRD21 Molecular Pathogenesis Transcriptional repressor CTCF (CTCF; also called CCCTC-binding factor)
