Bookshelf_NBK603087
KEYWORDS: disorder, individuals, ctcf-related, ctcf-related disorder, ctcf, affected, pathogenic, reported, developmental, feeding, anomalies, genetic, intellectual, affected individuals, issues


Entries for CTCF-Related Disorder (View All in OMIM) 604167 CCCTC-BINDING FACTOR; CTCF 615502 INTELLECTUAL DEVELOPMENTAL DISORDER, AUTOSOMAL DOMINANT 21; MRD21 Molecular Pathogenesis Transcriptional repressor CTCF (CTCF; also called CCCTC-binding factor) is a DNA-binding transcription factor that plays a critical role in regulating gene expression and chromatin organization [Phillips & Corces 2009]. CTCF contains 727 amino acids and three functional domains: an N-terminal domain (residues 1-267), a central DNA-binding domain with 11 tandem Cys2-His2 (C2H2) zinc fingers (ZFs) (residues 268-577), and a C- terminal domain (residues 578-727). The ZFs largely orchestrate the interaction between CTCF and spe cific DNA sequences that are found throughout the genome. The RNA-binding domain (RBD) of CTCF interacts with RNA as well. CTCF can function as a transcriptional activator or repressor, depending on its binding location and iterating partners. CTCF organizes the three-dimensional structure of the genome by forming DNA loops and facilitating the formation of higher-order chromatin structures for proper cellular function and CTCF-Related Disorder 17 development. In addition to its role in chromatin organization, CTCF is involved in genomic imprinting, DNA methylation patterning, X-chromosome inactivation, and alternative splicing [Kung et al 2015, Hashimoto et al 2017, Hansen et al 2019, Saldaña-Meyer et al 2019, Alharbi et al 2021]. Missense pathogenic variants account for more than half of reported pathogenic variants. The majority of pathogenic missense variants are located in ZFs, particularly in the DNA-binding region and less commonly in other functional domains, such as the RBD and Tyr-Asp-Phe (YDF) domains [Valverde de Morales et al 2023]. Mechanism of disease causation. Loss of function Chapter Notes Author Notes The Emory CTCF-related disorder center (www.ctcfemory.com), led by Dr Hong Li and Dr Victor Corces, is devoted to understanding the phenotypic spectrum, natural history, and molecular mechanism of CTCF-related disorder. For information about ongoing research studies, contact . Acknowledgments We would like to thank all the families and their clinicians who have contributed to ongoing Emory CTCF- related disorder research (www.ctcfemory.com). We would also like to thank the CTCF-related disorder patient support group for all their contributions in helping us understand more about the natural history of this condition. Revision History • 25 April 2024 (ma) Review posted live • 7 June 2023 (hl) Original submission
