NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: liver, bupivacaine, local, anesthetics, injury, liver injury, local anesthetics, pain, amide, given, pubmed, days, pmid, pubmed pmid, infusions


were rarely reported and were generally no more common than with placebo or comparator injections. Despite widespread use for many decades, the local amide anesthetics, when given as single or limited injections or infusions, have not been convincingly linked to instances of clinically apparent liver injury, and liver toxicity is 2 LiverTox not mentioned in product labels. Nevertheless, there have been several case series of jaundice arising a few days to as long as a month after use of bupivacaine given over several days as a constant infusion or as repeated injections into a localized area of pain. Some reports mentioned concurrent administration of an antibiotic such as cefazolin during the perioperative period, which might have accounted for the liver injury. However, in other reports, only bupivacaine was given. The liver injury was mixed or cholestatic and mild-to-moderate in severity, resolving within 1 to 2 months of onset without residual evidence of liver injury. In many instances, there was an accompanying low grade fever, rash or eosinophilia, suggesting a hypersensitivity reaction. Likelihood score (lidocaine, articaine, mepivacaine, prilocaine, ropivacaine): E (unlikely causes of clinically apparent liver injury). Likelihood score (bupivacaine): C (probable cause of clinically apparent liver injury). Mechanism of Injury The mechanism by which bupivacaine might cause liver injury is unknown, but is most likely due to an idiosyncratic hypersensitivity reaction. The amide local anesthetics are metabolized locally and do not affect the activity of cytochrome P450 enzymes. Management The liver injury linked to exposures to amide anesthetics has largely been limited to use of bupivacaine given by infusion or multiple injections over a period of 1 to 3 days. The injury was invariably self-limited, and no instance of chronic liver injury, vanishing bile duct syndrome or acute liver failure has been linked to bupivacaine or other local anesthetics. There have been no reports of recurrence after reexposure to bupivacaine, but in several instances patients with jaundice from bupivacaine infusions have later tolerated injections or infusions with lidocaine. Drug Class: Anesthetics, Local CASE REPORT Case 1. Immunoallergic hepatitis arising 3 weeks after a 2 day course of bupivacaine infusions for postoperative pain control. [Modified from Case 2 of: Chintamaneni P, Stevenson HL, Malik SM. Bupivacaine drug-induced liver injury: a case series and brief review of the literature. J Clin Anesth 2016; 32: 137-41. PubMed Citation] A 51 year old man developed fever, dark urine, pruritus and jaundice 3 weeks after
