NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: liver, bupivacaine, local, anesthetics, injury, liver injury, local anesthetics, pain, amide, given, pubmed, days, pmid, pubmed pmid, infusions


series and brief review of the literature. J Clin Anesth 2016; 32: 137-41. PubMed Citation] A 51 year old man developed fever, dark urine, pruritus and jaundice 3 weeks after an inguinal herniorrhaphy, during which he received bupivacaine injections followed by constant infusions into the area of the incision for two days postoperatively. He also received a single dose of cefazolin at the time of surgery and had taken simvastatin for hyperlipidemia for several years. He recovered from the surgery without complications until several weeks later when symptoms of fever and jaundice arose. He had no previous history of liver disease or risk factors for viral hepatitis. He drank an average of 10 beers weekly. On presentation, he was jaundiced but had no stigmata of chronic liver disease. Laboratory results showed elevations in liver tests, and serum bilirubin subsequently peaked at 9.5 mg/dL, ALT 491 U/L, AST 262 U/L and alkaline phosphatase 378 U/L, yielding an R ratio of ~4.3. The eosinophil count was 9%. He tested negative for markers of acute hepatitis A, B and C and for herpes simplex and Epstein-Barr virus infection. Autoantibodies were not detected. Imaging of the liver by ultrasound and CT showed no evidence of biliary obstruction or hepatic abnormalities. A liver biopsy showed a “mixed” cholestatic and hepatocellular pattern and occasional eosinophils. He recovered rapidly and all liver tests were normal 4 weeks later. Amide Local Anesthetics 3 Key Points Medication: Bupivacaine Pattern: Mixed (R=4.3) Severity: 3+ (jaundice and hospitalization) Latency: 3 weeks Recovery: Complete, 1 month after onset Other medications: Cefazolin, simvastatin Comment Bupivacaine when given by infusion over several days has been linked to at least 10 published cases of acute liver been consistently marked by a mixed or cholestatic hepatitis with immunoallergic features (fever, rash, eosinophilia) and self-limited course, all liver tests returning to normal within 30 to 60 days of onset. The cases have been mild-to-moderate in severity. Strikingly, all instances have been described as a part of case series from a single institution. In the current case, the patient was also exposed to cefazolin, which has also been linked to a delayed cholestatic hepatitis. However, in other instances of liver injury after bupivacaine, no other drugs linked to liver injury were being taken. Other amide local anesthetics have not been implicated in this type of liver injury, but they are rarely given over a period of days and
