Joseph J. Ferretti • Dennis L. Stevens • Vincent A. Fischetti
KEYWORDS: streptococcal, streptococcus, streptococci, pyogenes, group, diseases, streptococcus pyogenes, fever, disease, research, ferretti, group streptococci, infections, lancefield, scarlet


great deal about this human specific pathogen and its associated diseases, there is still much to learn. The aim of this volume is to present a current summary of every aspect of this microorganism: in other words, the A to Z of contemporary information about Streptococcus pyogenes. The various topics covered in the following chapters are presented in a progression that ranges from basic biology to clinical manifestations. Early research on Streptococcus pyogenes during the last century was aimed at developing a vaccine to prevent its many associated diseases, and in the process, provided much of the basic biology, physiology, and immunology that has been essential for ongoing research. With the advent of genetic and molecular biology approaches, as well as the new tools of genetic engineering, DNA and protein sequencing, a new era of –omics appeared, including genomics, proteomics, and metabolomics. Information from these studies has been applied to the development of vaccines, understanding genetic regulation, and epidemiology. Infections with Streptococcus pyogenes result in a wider variety of diseases than perhaps any other microorganism, ranging from throat and skin infections, scarlet fever, puerperal fever, and necrotizing fasciitis, to the post-infection sequelae of rheumatic fever and acute glomerulonephritis. More recent disease descriptions in the 1980s and 1990s include diseases such as streptococcal toxic shock syndrome and pediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorders associated with streptococcal infections (or PANDAS). Epidemiological studies have been important in defining these recent diseases, as well as providing a greater understanding of their transmission, control, and prevention. Moreover, a variety of model systems provide new information about mechanisms of pathogenesis, as well as insights into intracellular invasion and the carrier state. Finally, the development of a vaccine, as well as new and innovative methods of anti-infective control will be important areas of continued research. This book represents a concerted effort by an international group of S. pyogenes researchers, each an expert in their own area of work, who have generously provided their time and energy to present the current status of work in their own field. In virtually all areas, their work was supported with financial assistance from various national and international research institutions, organizations, and foundations. In recognition of this support, these researchers pay forward their scientific knowledge to the general public, as well as to the next generation of students, scholars, and researchers. As a living document in an open access format, additions of new information
