Joseph J. Ferretti • Dennis L. Stevens • Vincent A. Fischetti
KEYWORDS: streptococcal, streptococcus, streptococci, pyogenes, group, diseases, streptococcus pyogenes, fever, disease, research, ferretti, group streptococci, infections, lancefield, scarlet


knowledge to the general public, as well as to the next generation of students, scholars, and researchers. As a living document in an open access format, additions of new information and updates on each topic can be provided on a regular basis. Our hope is that this volume will serve not only as an important resource and standard reference for public information, but also an aid to stimulate further research that will lead to better methods of disease control and treatment. Editors trained under the tutelage of Lewis Wannamaker, Elia Ayoub, and Ernest Gray. Following a postdoctoral supported by years of support from NIH and other agencies, have been in the areas of streptococcal genetics, regulation of virulence factors, bacteriophages, and genomics. Dr. Ferretti is the author or co-editor of four books, including Basic Microbiology and Genetics; Streptococcal Genetics; Genetics of Streptococci, Enterococci, and Lactococci; and the ASM book on Gram-Positive Pathogens. viii Streptococcus pyogenes Montana State University and an MD from the University of Utah. Dr. Stevens’ major research interests have been the pathogenesis of serious infections caused by toxin-producing Gram positive pathogens, including Clostridium perfringens, Clostridium sordellii, group A streptococcus, and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). He is a member of the CDC Working Group on Invasive Streptococcal Infections, a consultant to the WHO, and an invited participant to the NIH Workforce on severe group A streptococcal infections. Dr. Stevens is editor or co-editor of four books on skin and soft tissue infection, including co-editor with Dr. Edward earliest events in Gram-positive bacterial infections. Over the years, one of his interests has been to examine the surface molecules on Gram-positive bacteria—particularly the surface M protein on S. pyogenes and its coiled- coil structure. His work with bacteriophages has led to the development of phage lysins as novel therapeutics. Dr. He has been editor-in-chief of the ASM journal Infection and Immunity for 10 years, and is a co-editor of the ASM book Gram-Positive Pathogens. Acknowledgments We take this opportunity to first thank all the authors who have contributed and shared their expertise to make this book a reality. Additionally, our appreciation extends to the many international colleagues, who served as reviewers of each chapter, for their expertise, interest and encouragement. The seed for this book has it origins from the many meetings of international collaborators who have attended the Lancefield International Symposia on Streptococci and Streptococcal Diseases and the ASM
