Joseph J. Ferretti • Dennis L. Stevens • Vincent A. Fischetti
KEYWORDS: streptococcal, streptococcus, streptococci, pyogenes, group, diseases, streptococcus pyogenes, fever, disease, research, ferretti, group streptococci, infections, lancefield, scarlet


The seed for this book has it origins from the many meetings of international collaborators who have attended the Lancefield International Symposia on Streptococci and Streptococcal Diseases and the ASM International Meetings on Streptococcal Genetics, which had their beginnings in the 1960s and 1980s, respectively. This forum of sharing and dissemination of information allowed collaborations to advance the field in many important ways. Although the proceedings of these meetings are no longer published, we hope that the present volume will serve as a resource and standard reference for the future. We acknowledge the Presbyterian Health Foundation of Oklahoma City for its generous support of all the Center Library for serving as the book publisher. We are extremely grateful to our colleague and friend, Michael S. Gilmore, who advised us on almost every step of this effort, based on his experience in the publication of a similar volume on the Enterococci. A special thank you and appreciation goes to Mary Van Tyne, the copy editor of this volume, for her extraordinary expertise, efficiency, and timeliness in the completion of this book. It would not have been possible to complete this effort without her assistance. We also thank Manfred Rohde for his contribution of the electron micrograph image on the cover page, and Kyle Vogel for his improvement of figure s within the work. Finally, a great deal of appreciation goes to Marilu A. Hoeppner and her staff at the National Center for Biotechnology Information Bookshelf, who provided us with guidance and assistance to bring this project to completion. History of Streptococcal Research 1 2 Created: February 10, 2016. Introduction Streptococcal diseases have been known for centuries, although their delineation into separate disease entities th th did not begin to occur until the 16 century AD. The original writings of Hippocrates from the 4 century BC describe the disease erysipelas (ἐρυσίπελας, red skin), as well as the symptoms of childbed fever, and “Galen remarks that not only erysipelas, but also inflammation, when it attacks the impregnated uterus, generally proves fatal” (Adams, 1849). Centuries later, after epidemic rates of mortality, this particular disease was recognized in 1716 as puerperal fever or childbed fever (Strother, 1716). Many theories about the origin of diseases appeared in the intervening centuries, including associating their occurrence with natural phenomena like comets and eclipses; the spread of disease by vapors and smells; “contagion,” or the transferring of diseases from
