Joseph J. Ferretti • Dennis L. Stevens • Vincent A. Fischetti
KEYWORDS: streptococcal, streptococcus, streptococci, pyogenes, group, diseases, streptococcus pyogenes, fever, disease, research, ferretti, group streptococci, infections, lancefield, scarlet


in the intervening centuries, including associating their occurrence with natural phenomena like comets and eclipses; the spread of disease by vapors and smells; “contagion,” or the transferring of diseases from one to another; and the introduction of non-living matter into a patient (Karamanou, Panayiotakopoulos, Tsoucalas, th Kousoulis, & Androutsos, 2012). It was not until the 18 century that further progress into the etiology of diseases was made. A major advancement was the invention of the microscope by Anton van Leeuwenhoek (1632-1723) as well as his descriptions of new life forms, including the shapes of cocci, bacilli, and spirochetes (Figure 1) (Dobell, 1932). However, as with a number of early scientific and medical discoveries or observations, the link between the microscopic discovery of these new life forms and diseases was not realized until almost two centuries later. Scarlet Fever Reviews of the writings of ancient scholars found many passages relating to sore throats or ulcerous tonsils, but lacked comment about an associated rash, which would be typical of what would later be known as scarlet fever. According to Rolleston (Rolleston, 1928) in his article on the history of scarlet fever, Giovanni Filippo Ingrassias, a Sicilian anatomist and practitioner, wrote in 1553 (Ingrassia, 1553) the first description of a disease termed “rossalia” that was characterized by “numerous spots, large and small, fiery and red, of universal distribution, so that the whole body appeared to be on fire.” He also reported that this “rossalia” or rash was different than that observed in measles. (Rolleston, 1928). According to most scholars, Johann Weyer of the Netherlands was the first to describe a sore throat occurring during epidemics of scarlatina anginosa, which he did in 1565. In 1578, Jean Cottyar of Poitiers gave the first definitive description of scarlet fever in France as a “general weariness, headache, redness of the eyes, sore throat, and fever. Purpura appeared on the second or third day, accompanied by delirium and soreness of throat”. Daniel Sennert (Sennert, 1628) described an epidemic in Wittenberg in the beginning of the seventeenth century and was the first to describe scarlatinal desquamation, arthritis, and post- scarlatinal dropsy and ascites. The term “scarlatina” was first introduced into the medical literature in 1675 by Sydenham (Sydenham, 1676), who identified it as a separate disease entity from other exanthemas, especially measles (Rolleston, 1928). th th Epidemics of scarlet fever were reported throughout Europe and North America during
