Joseph J. Ferretti • Dennis L. Stevens • Vincent A. Fischetti
KEYWORDS: streptococcal, streptococcus, streptococci, pyogenes, group, diseases, streptococcus pyogenes, fever, disease, research, ferretti, group streptococci, infections, lancefield, scarlet


1676), who identified it as a separate disease entity from other exanthemas, especially measles (Rolleston, 1928). th th Epidemics of scarlet fever were reported throughout Europe and North America during the 17 and 18 centuries, some of which were associated with high mortalities. It was not until the 1920s that George and Gladys Dick showed that scarlet fever was associated with a sore throat caused by hemolytic streptococci that Oklahoma City, OK, USA; Email: . 2 Adolf Reichwein Strasse 16, D-07745 Jena; formerly, Corresponding author. 2 Streptococcus pyogenes Figure 1. Leeuwenhoek’s drawings of bacteria from the human mouth. produced a secreted toxin known as scarlet fever toxin, or Dick toxin (Dick & Dick, 1924a; Dick & Dick, 1924b; Dick & Dick, 1924c). Scarlet fever remained an important infectious disease until the advent of antibiotic therapy in the 1940s, and prior to that time, a brightly colored quarantine sign was placed on the door of the house of diseased individuals to isolate the patient and prevent the further spread of this feared disease (Figure 2). Puerperal Fever Although streptococcal diseases were not recognized as a cause of puerperal fever at the time, epidemics associated with high mortality rates during childbirth were reported across Europe and North America in the th th 18 and 19 centuries. In 1843, the American surgeon Oliver Wendel Holmes, Sr. (Figure 3), published a paper on “The Contagiousness of Puerperal fever” (Holmes, 1843). Holmes wrote, “This disease seized such women only patients affected with the disease” (Holmes, 1843). His observations were the subject of more debate than application, and many of his contemporaries responded to his report with more ridicule than acceptance. mortality rates and observed that the mortality rates of women giving birth attended by physicians in Clinic 1 were almost ten times higher than when midwives attended the deliveries in Clinic 2. He observed that physicians and medical students who arrived at the hospital in the morning first visited the autopsy rooms before seeing patients in other wards. Because physicians and medical students did not wash their hands before going to the obstetric ward, Semmelweis surmised they were physically carrying the disease entity from cadaverous material directly to patients. In 1847, he ordered all medical attendants to scrub their hands in a chlorinated lime solution before entering the obstetric ward. After seven months, the mortality from puerperal History of Streptococcal Research 3 Figure 2. Scarlet
