Joseph J. Ferretti • Dennis L. Stevens • Vincent A. Fischetti
KEYWORDS: streptococcal, streptococcus, streptococci, pyogenes, group, diseases, streptococcus pyogenes, fever, disease, research, ferretti, group streptococci, infections, lancefield, scarlet


attendants to scrub their hands in a chlorinated lime solution before entering the obstetric ward. After seven months, the mortality from puerperal History of Streptococcal Research 3 Figure 2. Scarlet Fever Quarantine sign. containing blood or other bodily materials were not changed between patients. In 1848, chlorine solution washings were carried out during the year, and Semmelweis also ordered the changing of sheets between patients. His recordings showed that the mortality rate that year in Clinic 1 was 1.27% and in Clinic 2 was 1.3%. Though the results were profound, Semmelweis had no scientific evidence to explain the cause of the disease— except cleanliness. Nevertheless, his immediate superiors resented Semmelweis’s Lehre (teaching) methods and treated his findings with skepticism and ridicule. In 1849, Semmelweis returned to Budapest, because his treatise, The Etiology, Concept and Prophylaxis of Childbed Fever (Semmelweis, 1983). He was an early revolutionary in the medical sciences in the use of statistical methods to prove his hypothesis that childbed fever was caused by medical personnel failing to wash their hands and who then transmitted the disease to patients. A full recognition of Semmelweis’s brilliant work did not come until 14 years after his death in 1865. In a elaborated on the causes of epidemics in lying-in hospitals, ascribing them to an undefined “puerperal miasma. Louis Pasteur interrupted him: ‘None of those things cause the epidemic; it is the nursing and medical staff who carry the microbe from an infected woman to a healthy one.’ And when the speaker replied that he feared the microbe would never be found, Pasteur went to the blackboard and drew a diagram of the dangerous chain- forming microbe, saying, ‘There: This is what it looks like’” (Pasteur, 1879; Schwartz, 1997). A complete and 4 Streptococcus pyogenes detailed history of puerperal fever can be found in two books by Irvine Louden: Childbed Fever, A Documentary History; 1995 (Loudon, 1995) and The Tragedy of Childbed Fever, 2000 (Loudon, 2000). Discovery of Streptococci The first description of streptococcal infection is attributed to the Austrian surgeon, Theodor Billroth (Figure 5), in 1874, when he described the organism in cases of erysipelas and wound infections (Billroth, 1874; Billroth, 1877). He described these “small organisms (Kettenkokken) as found in either isolated or arranged in pairs, sometimes in chains of four to twenty or more links (Streptococcus; Gr. strepto, a chain, and coccus, a berry).” The real importance and formal
