Joseph J. Ferretti • Dennis L. Stevens • Vincent A. Fischetti
KEYWORDS: streptococcal, streptococcus, streptococci, pyogenes, group, diseases, streptococcus pyogenes, fever, disease, research, ferretti, group streptococci, infections, lancefield, scarlet


either isolated or arranged in pairs, sometimes in chains of four to twenty or more links (Streptococcus; Gr. strepto, a chain, and coccus, a berry).” The real importance and formal entry of streptococci to history came in 1879 when Louis Pasteur (Figure 6) isolated the microorganism from the uteruses and blood of women with puerperal fever (Alouf & Horaud, 1997). He further demonstrated that the streptococcus was the etiological agent responsible for the disease that caused the highest mortality rates of women and newborns at that time. Additional refinement of the name streptococcus came from Friedrich Julius Rosenbach in 1884, who examined bacteria isolated from suppurative lesions, and the species was named Streptococcus pyogenes (Gr., pyo, pus, and genes, forming) (Evans, 1936). Previously, Fehleisen isolated streptococci from a patient with erysipelas and Rosenbach named the organism S. erysepaltis (Evans, 1936; Rosenbach, 1884). However, later reviews showed that there was no particular characteristic associated with organisms isolated from specific diseases, and Andrewes and Christie suggested that the proposed species names of pyogenes, eryespaltis, scarlatinae, and puerperalis all be included in the single name Streptococcus pyogenes (Evans, 1936; Andrewes & Christie, 1932). Differentiation and Classification of Streptococci The introduction of blood agar plates by Hugo Schottmuller in 1903 was an important step forward for the differentiation of streptococci (Schottmuller, 1903; Becker, 1916). When mixtures of streptococci were streaked on blood agar plates, two types of hemolysis were observed: a clear zone surrounding a colony containing organisms in long chains, termed Streptococcus haemolyticus; and a green zone surrounding a colony with short chains, termed Streptococcus viridans. Further elaboration by Brown in 1919 (Brown, 1919) resulted in three classes of hemolytic patterns surrounding a colony on a blood agar plate: 1) “Alpha”—a green zone of discoloration, which is characteristic of the viridans streptococci; 2) “Beta”—a clear zone of complete hemolysis, which is found in the S. haemolyticus type organisms; and 3) “Gamma”—no change in the medium, which is characteristic of the enterococcus and S. faecalis organisms. At the same time, Dochez, Avery, and Lancefie ld began using immunological approaches to demonstrate that differences could be demonstrated between strains of S. haemolyticus (Dochez, Avery, & Lancefield, 1919). In 1933, Lancefield used surface antigen differen ces among various streptococci to further subdivide them into groups designated by the letters A through X (Köhler, 2008). The strains from human diseases were classified as Group A; the strains
