Joseph J. Ferretti • Dennis L. Stevens • Vincent A. Fischetti
KEYWORDS: streptococcal, streptococcus, streptococci, pyogenes, group, diseases, streptococcus pyogenes, fever, disease, research, ferretti, group streptococci, infections, lancefield, scarlet


by van de Rijn and Kessler in 1980, overcame many of the previous deficiencies and provided high culture densities as well as adequate amounts of virulence factors, such as M protein and extracellular History of Streptococcal Research 9 products (van de Rijn & Kessler, 1980). A more detailed description of the metabolism of the group A streptococci can be found in a subsequent chapter. Ultrastructure and Cellular Components In initial studies of the biology of hemolytic streptococci, immunological differences were found to exist among strains isolated from human disease. These organisms were identified as being strongly Gram-positive and growing in chains of varying length (Dochez, Avery, & Lancefield, 1919). Colonies formed on agar plates were identified as small, smooth, and moist in appearance, but capsule formation was not identified at that time. Almost 20 years later, a polysaccharide composed of N-acetylglucosamine and glucuronic acid was isolated from encapsulated group A streptococci and was found to be identical to hyaluronic acid found in mammalian tissue (Kendall, Heidelberger, & Dawson, 1937). This capsular material did not stimulate antibody production, an observation consistent with the fact that this substance occurs naturally in mammalian tissues. A comprehensive review of the capsular polysaccharide of group A streptococci and its biochemistry, genetics, and role in virulence has been reported by Wessels (Wessels, 2006), and in a subsequent chapter in this volume. The studies of Lancefield and colleagues have provided a great deal of information about the antigenic structure of the streptococcal cell, particularly about the M protein and its importance as the major virulence factor of the group A streptococci (Lancefield, 1962). In addition to the 1962 review by Lancefield (Loudon, 2000), detailed reviews on the streptococcal M protein have been presented by Fox in 1974 (Fox, 1974), Fischetti in 1989 (Fischetti, 1989), and Fischetti et al. in another chapter in this volume. Besides the M protein, many more proteins have been found on the cell surface by their ability to bind mammalian serum or secretory proteins, such as immunoglobulins, albumin, fibrinogen, and fibronectin, or by enzymatic digestion. These include T-protein, serum opacity factor, C5a peptidase, collagen-like protein Scl1, GRAB, and protein F, among others. Fischetti and colleagues have shown that the C-terminal region of these anchored proteins contains a highly conserved heptapeptide consensus sequence of LPXTG, which is an anchor signal found in most surface proteins from Gram-positive bacteria for covalent attachment to the peptidoglycans
