Joseph J. Ferretti • Dennis L. Stevens • Vincent A. Fischetti
KEYWORDS: streptococcal, streptococcus, streptococci, pyogenes, group, diseases, streptococcus pyogenes, fever, disease, research, ferretti, group streptococci, infections, lancefield, scarlet


anchored proteins contains a highly conserved heptapeptide consensus sequence of LPXTG, which is an anchor signal found in most surface proteins from Gram-positive bacteria for covalent attachment to the peptidoglycans (Mazmanian, Ton-That, & Schneewind, 2001). Finally, Mora and colleagues reported that group A streptococci possess pilus-like structures that contain protective antigens and Lancefield T antigens (Mora, et al., 2005). A recent publication that used microarray analysis identified more than 80 different proteins on the surface of an M1 strain of group A streptococci (Galeotti, et al., 2012). A major component of the streptococcal cell wall, making up approximately 50 percent of its weight, was found to be carbohydrate in nature and was identified as the group-specific carbohydrate (Lancefield, 1941). Eighteen groups of specific antigens were established by Lancefield, and the group A carbohydrate was subsequently shown to be composed of a polymer of rhamnose and N-acetylglucosamine (Krause & McCarty, 1961). The next several chapters of this volume present a more detailed and comprehensive view of the ultrastructure of the group A streptococci. Streptococcal Bacteriophages Bacteriophages were first independently identified by Twort in 1915 and were later confirmed by d’Herelle in 1917. Frederick Twort, an English bacteriologist, discovered agents that he termed “filter-passing viruses” which required bacteria for growth (Twort, 1915). Twort’s studies were interrupted by World War I, and as a result, he did not return to research until several years later. Felix d’Herelle, a French-Canadian microbiologist, first applied the name “bacteriophage” (from bacteria and the Greek word phagein, "to devour") to a phage that was able to kill a number of pathogenic bacteria, including streptococci (d'Herelle, 1915). Subsequent work relating to these two investigators resulted in the “Twort-d’Herelle Controversy,” a topic covered in detail in other historical reviews (Ackermann, Martin, Vieu, & Nicolle, 1982; Duckworth, 1976; Fruciano & Bourne, 2007; Summers, 1999). 10 Streptococcus pyogenes In 1924, a report by Dick and Dick (Dick & Dick, 1924a) about the presence of a rash-producing substance in the culture filtrates of certain hemolytic streptococci stimulated further research on the substance, and was variously termed as scarlet fever toxin, Dick toxin (Dick & Dick, 1924b), scarlatinal toxin (Trask, 1926), or erythrogenic toxin (Stock, 1939). Shortly after, the role of a filterable factor (bacteriophage) that was able to change a non-toxigenic streptococcal strain to a toxigenic strain was reported by Cantacuzène and Bonciu (Cantacuzène, 1926) in 1926, and Frobisher and Brown in 1927
