Joseph J. Ferretti • Dennis L. Stevens • Vincent A. Fischetti
KEYWORDS: streptococcal, streptococcus, streptococci, pyogenes, group, diseases, streptococcus pyogenes, fever, disease, research, ferretti, group streptococci, infections, lancefield, scarlet


& Watson, 1980), and McKane and Ferretti (McKane & Ferretti, 1981) employing the same T25 non-lysogen and T12 phage system that Zabriskie reported. The demonstration that T12 phage contained the structural gene for the streptococcal pyrogenic exotoxin A (speA) was confirmed independently by Weeks and Ferretti (Weeks & Ferretti, 1984) and Johnson and Schlievert (Johnson & Schlievert, 1984). In subsequent experiments, the speA containing T12 bacteriophage was shown to integrate into a gene that encodes a serine tRNA in the host chromosome (McShan, Tang, & Ferretti, 1997). Further information about bacteriophages can be found in the bacteriophage chapter of this volume. Extracellular Products The group A streptococci produce a large number of proteins that are secreted into the extracellular fluid during growth. Many of these proteins were originally detected by their biological activities or by immunological detection with human antiserum. Historically, the first extracellular products studied were those thought to be directly related to diseases; namely, erythrogenic toxin, streptolysin O, streptolysin S, proteinase, streptokinase, DNase, RNase, and hyaluronidase (McCarty, 1952). As research in the area of genetics and genomics has increased in recent years, additional secreted extracellular products have been discovered, such as CAMP factor, streptococcal inhibitor of complement, immunogenic secreted protein, and a number of superantigens. Additionally, these secreted proteins may be encoded by either chromosomal or bacteriophage-associated genes. Many of these secreted proteins are known virulence factors and play important roles in colonization, invasion, History of Streptococcal Research 11 spreading, and pathogenesis. Comprehensive reviews on the topic of group A streptococcus extracellular products have been published by Alouf (Proft & Fraser, 2006; Alouf, 1980), Ginsburg (Ginsburg, 1972), Hynes (Hynes, 2004), McCormick et al (McCormick, Peterson, & Schlievert, 2006), and in another chapter in this volume. Streptococcal Diseases Streptococcus pyogenes is a strict human pathogen responsible for a wider variety of human diseases than perhaps any other microorganism. The classical diseases of the group A streptococci are now known by newer names. For example, streptococcal pharyngitis is a “strep sore throat,” and if accompanied by a rash, it is known as scarlet fever. Skin infections categorized as pyoderma or impetigo may include erysipelas and cellulitis, which infect deeper layers of the skin. If these infections spread to the fascia, the disease is known as necrotizing fasciitis, which is sometimes referred to as a “flesh-eating disease” by the popular press. This is a severely invasive disease that, unless given immediate
