Joseph J. Ferretti • Dennis L. Stevens • Vincent A. Fischetti
KEYWORDS: streptococcal, streptococcus, streptococci, pyogenes, group, diseases, streptococcus pyogenes, fever, disease, research, ferretti, group streptococci, infections, lancefield, scarlet


the disease is known as necrotizing fasciitis, which is sometimes referred to as a “flesh-eating disease” by the popular press. This is a severely invasive disease that, unless given immediate surgical and medical intervention, results in a high mortality rate. Another severe invasive disease is streptococcal toxic shock syndrome (STSS), a systemic disease entity recognized in the early 1990s (The Working Group on Severe Streptococcal Infections, 1993; Stevens, 1995) and is described further in the chapter on toxic shock in the present volume. Additional diseases that occur as a result of a previous streptococcal infection are referred to as sequelae, including rheumatic fever (RF) and acute post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis (APSGN). Although the symptoms of these diseases were recognized in earlier times, the pathogenesis and association with group A streptococci were not clearly defined until the early 1900s. Excellent historical accounts of rheumatic fever are presented by Benedek (Benedek, 2006) and Stollerman (Stollerman, 1975), as well as in a subsequent chapter. Historical descriptions of APSGN are found in a review by Rodríguez-Iturbe and Batsford (Rodríguez-Iturbe & Batsford, 2007) in this volume. An illness described in 1998 that may follow a streptococcal infection in children is Pediatric Autoimmune Neuropsychiatric Disorders Associated with Streptococcal infections (PANDAS) (Swedo, et al., 1998). Thi s disorder may arise from multiple aetiologies, and its neuropsychiatric symptoms, such as tic disorders and associated with Sydenham’s chorea, which is a disease associated with a prior group A streptococcal infection. The interest in this topic is both important to many and controversial to others, but it is nevertheless worthy of presentation in this volume as presented in a following chapter. Treatment of Streptococcal Diseases th Treatments of diseases resembling streptococcal infections were described from the earliest writings in the 5 century BC, e.g., “when erysipelas supervenes, emetics, or purgatives are to be administered. When parts around the sore are swollen, a cataplasm (poultice) is to be applied” (Adams, 1849). Treatments over the centuries have also included bloodletting, as well as drugs derived from herbs with emetic, purgative, diaphoretic, or narcotic properties. Additional cures and remedies prescribed during the Middle Ages for all kinds of diseases can be found in the book “Fasciculus Medicinae,” a collection of medical treatises compiled in 1491 by the German It was not until the 1930s that streptococcal infections were treated with sulphur antibacterials—they were among the first infectious disease organisms to be treated in this way.
