Joseph J. Ferretti • Dennis L. Stevens • Vincent A. Fischetti
KEYWORDS: streptococcal, streptococcus, streptococci, pyogenes, group, diseases, streptococcus pyogenes, fever, disease, research, ferretti, group streptococci, infections, lancefield, scarlet


by the German It was not until the 1930s that streptococcal infections were treated with sulphur antibacterials—they were among the first infectious disease organisms to be treated in this way. Domagk found that certain azo dyes coupled with sulphur resulted in an antibacterial agent, named Prontosil, which was inhibitory to a highly virulent strain of Streptococcus hemolyticus (Domagk, 1936; Domagk, 1957). Later modifications of the azo dyes resulted in the sulphonamides, which were marketed as early as 1937 for the treatment of pneumonia and other bacterial infections (Bentley, 2009). 12 Streptococcus pyogenes antibacterial agents that killed invading bacteria. In 1921, he accidentally found that a substance in his own nasal mucosa was able to dissolve certain bacteria, but not streptococci or staphylococci. This substance was later found to be lysozyme (Bentley, 2009), an enzyme that cleaves the peptidoglycan found in the cell walls of many bacteria. In 1928, Fleming made another accidental discovery that a Petri dish containing Staphylococci also contained a contaminating fungal colony that lysed the bacteria in the surrounding areas. Fleming named the substance causing the bacterial lysis penicillin, after the Penicillium fungus found on the plate (Fleming, 1929). He continued work with attempts to isolate the penicillin from culture filtrates, but made little progress in ensuing years. It was not until 1939 that significant progress was made in the production and isolation of a stable form of penicillin by the Australian physiologist Howard Walter Florey and his German colleague, Ernst Boris Chain (Ligon, 2004). They were able to establish large-scale fermentation conditions to produce penicillin in sufficient quantities to begin effective treatment in the early 1940s. These important discoveries were not only the beginning of the antibiotic era, but also a new industry, based on fermentation, for the production of antibiotics and pharmaceuticals. For these outstanding achievements, Fleming, Chain, and Florey were awarded the 1945 Nobel Prize in physiology or medicine. Streptococcus pyogenes has been and is still extremely sensitive to penicillin-based antibiotics. In fact, despite being the treatment of choice for decades because of its efficacy and low toxicity, streptococci resistant to penicillin have not evolved. The reason for this is still unknown, but may be related to the inability of naked DNA to enter the streptococcal cell because of the presence of DNases in the cytoplasmic membrane, or that beta-lactamase may not be expressed or may be toxic to the organism (Horn, et al.,
