Joseph J. Ferretti • Dennis L. Stevens • Vincent A. Fischetti
KEYWORDS: streptococcal, streptococcus, streptococci, pyogenes, group, diseases, streptococcus pyogenes, fever, disease, research, ferretti, group streptococci, infections, lancefield, scarlet


the streptococcal cell because of the presence of DNases in the cytoplasmic membrane, or that beta-lactamase may not be expressed or may be toxic to the organism (Horn, et al., 1998). Genetics and Genomics Maclyn McCarty is well known for his many contributions to streptococcal research, and his career of distinguished scientific achievements was documented in an essay by Gotschlich and Fischetti (Gotschlich & Fischetti, 2005). Along with Avery and MacCleod, McCarty is also known as one of the pioneers of molecular genetic research. The 1944 demonstration that DNA is the carrier of genetic information (Tagg, Skjold, & Wannamaker, 1976) was a truly revolutionary finding that transformed and propelled biological research into the next century (Avery, MacLeod, & McCarty, 1944). An interesting personal account of this historical discovery can be found in the book, “The Transforming Principle, Discovering that Genes are Made of DNA” (McCarty, 1986). A genetic approach to the study of group A streptococci and other factors related to disease had a somewhat slower start, compared to other microorganisms, due to the lack of a convenient gene transfer mechanism, as well as the fastidious growth requirements of the organism. Although a bacteriophage transduction system was available, the lack of convenient selection markers limited the transduction analysis to positive selection markers, such as antibiotic resistance genes (Malke, 1972; Stuart & Ferretti, 1978), or to the analysis of transposon-Tn916–generated mutations (Caparon & Scott, 1991). Additionally, although many attempts were made to effect gene transfer by conjugation or natural transformation, no successful reports were recorded until artificial transformation was achieved by electroporation and other methods (McLaughlin & Ferretti, 1995). The introduction of genetic engineering technology in the 1970s provided a new approach to analyze virulence factors at the gene level, but the power of this technique was not realized until appropriate streptococcal cloning vectors were made available. The first gene to be cloned in streptococci was an erythromycin resistance determinant (Behnke & Ferretti, 1980), and shortly thereafter, the genes for streptokinase (Malke & Ferretti, 1984), streptococcal pyrogenic exotoxin A(Johnson & Schlievert, 1984; Weeks & Ferretti, 1984), M protein (Scott & Fischetti, 1983), and many others were cloned. The availability of these genes allowed sequence analysis to be completed, as well as overexpression studies for further studies of the individual proteins. Outgrowths of these molecular studies were the area of the “genome,” the genetic material (DNA) of an organism; the “transcriptome,” the
