Joseph J. Ferretti • Dennis L. Stevens • Vincent A. Fischetti
KEYWORDS: streptococcal, streptococcus, streptococci, pyogenes, group, diseases, streptococcus pyogenes, fever, disease, research, ferretti, group streptococci, infections, lancefield, scarlet


overexpression studies for further studies of the individual proteins. Outgrowths of these molecular studies were the area of the “genome,” the genetic material (DNA) of an organism; the “transcriptome,” the set of RNAs in an organism; and the “proteome,” the structure and function of the proteins History of Streptococcal Research 13 of an organism. As they relate to the group A streptococci, these areas are presented in several other chapters of this volume. The genome era began with the first complete genome sequence of Hemophilus influenza in 1995 (Fleischmann, et al., 1995), and was followed by the sequencing of several other microbial genomes. The first complete sequence of a group A streptococcal genome was reported for an M1 strain in 2001 (Ferretti, et al., 2001), and since then, numerous complete genomes of other M-type strains have been reported. Their sequences are available in the NIH genebank at Additionally, as the cost of DNA sequencing has decreased over time, hundreds of draft genomes of group A streptococcal strains were produced and analyzed, either by public institutions or by industry. One of the more impressive recent genome studies used the sequences of over 3,600 genomes to delineate the step-wise genetic events that led to the worldwide epidemic of an M1 serotype strain with increased virulence (Nasser, et al., 2014). A subsequent chapter presents an overview of comparative genomics of the group A streptococci. Another important discovery from genome analyses was the identification of clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (or CRISPRs), and the associated DNA-cutting enzyme, Cas9 (Koonin & Makarova, 2009; Sorek, Kunin, & Hugenholz, 2008). The CRISPR-Cas modules found in many bacteria are adaptive immunity systems that defend the organisms against invading genetic elements (Makarova, et al., 2011). Thi s system also contains elements useful for directly editing or modulating the function of DNA sequences and provides a trailblazing new technology for genome engineering (Jinek, Chylinski, Fonfara, Hauer, & Doudna, 2012). A complete description of this system is presented in another chapter of this volume. Conclusion Diseases caused by Streptococcus pyogenes have been well documented through the ages, and the overall importance of streptococci in medical history has been appropriately summarized by Schwartz: “not only were streptococci among the first organisms to be presumed to be the cause of contagious diseases, but also their using streptococci have also played a role in understanding the pathogenesis of infectious diseases, the development of
