NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: apalutamide, cancer, prostate, prostate cancer, liver, injury, androgen, receptor, castration-resistant, castration-resistant prostate, agents, liver injury, hepatotoxicity, androgen receptor, survival


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Apalutamide. [Updated 2023 Mar 15]. Bookshelf URL: Apalutamide Updated: March 15, 2023. OVERVIEW Introduction Apalutamide is a third generation, oral nonsteroidal antiandrogen used to treat nonmetastatic castration- resistant prostate cancer. Apalutamide is associated with a low rate of serum enzyme elevation during therapy but has not been linked to cases of clinically apparent liver injury with jaundice. Background Apalutamide (a pa lut' a mide) is a small molecule androgen receptor antagonist which binds to the intracellular receptor and prevents its translocation to the nucleus and subsequent DNA binding, thereby blocking its activity. Therapy with apalutamide lowers residual testosterone levels after surgical castration in men with prostate cancer and has been shown to prolong metastasis free survival in men with castration-resistant prostate cancer with rising levels of prostate-associated antigen (PSA) without measurable metastatic disease. Apalutamide was approved for use in the United States in 2018 and current indications include metastatic, castration-sensitive prostate cancer and non-metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. Apalutamide is available as tablets of 60 and 240 mg under brand name Erleada. The recommended initial dose is 240 mg daily with subsequent dose reduction for intolerance. It should be administered with a gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) analog or after bilateral orchiectomy to insure optimal androgen suppression. Common side effects include symptoms of androgen deficiency including fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, anorexia, weight loss, constipation, joint and muscle pain, hot flushes, headaches, dizziness, and edema. Rare, but potentially serious side effects associated with long term therapy include seizures, osteoporosis, falls, bone fractures, severe cutaneous adverse events, embryo-fetal toxicity, and cardiovascular events. Hepatotoxicity In prelicensure controlled trials of apalutamide, serum aminotransferase elevations were uncommon and generally transient and mild, not requiring dose modification. Clinically apparent liver injury with jaundice attributable to apalutamide was not reported in the preregistration trials and is not mentioned as an adverse publications or descriptions of the clinical features of hepatotoxicity with jaundice associated with its use. Th e first and second generation androgen receptor blockers, flutamide, nilutamide, and bicalutamide, have all been linked to instances of hepatitis-like liver injury with jaundice that can be severe and even fatal. However, such cases have not been described with apalutamide and other third generation androgen receptor antagonists. Thu s, clinically apparent liver injury due to apalutamide must be rare, if it occurs at all. Likelihood score: E (unlikely
