NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: apalutamide, cancer, prostate, prostate cancer, liver, injury, androgen, receptor, castration-resistant, castration-resistant prostate, agents, liver injury, hepatotoxicity, androgen receptor, survival


with apalutamide and other third generation androgen receptor antagonists. Thu s, clinically apparent liver injury due to apalutamide must be rare, if it occurs at all. Likelihood score: E (unlikely cause of clinically apparent liver injury). 2 LiverTox Mechanism of Injury The possible cause of liver injury due to apalutamide therapy is unknown. While first and second generation antiandrogens have been implicated in causing liver injury, the more potent third general factors have not. Apalutamide is extensively metabolized in the liver predominantly by CYP 2C8 and 3A and is an inducer of CYP 3A4. While coadministration of apalutamide with substrates of CYP 3A4 and with modulators of CYP 2C8 and 3A4 may result in drug-drug interactions, the effects are relatively modest. Outcome and Management The liver injury linked to apalutamide therapy has been generally mild, consisting of transient and asymptomatic elevations in serum aminotransferase levels and rarely requiring dose modification or discontinuation. Apalutamide has not been linked to cases of acute liver failure, chronic hepatitis or vanishing bile duct syndrome. There is no information on cross sensitivity to hepatic injury between apalutamide and other antiandrogens, such as flutamide, bicalutamide, or abiraterone. Drug Class: Antineoplastic Agents, Antiandrogens PRODUCT INFORMATION REPRESENTATIVE TRADE NAMES Apalutamide – Erleada® DRUG CLASS Antineoplastic Agents COMPLETE LABELING Product labeling at DailyMed, National Library of Medicine, NIH CHEMICAL FORMULA AND STRUCTURE DRUG CAS REGISTRY NUMBER MOLECULAR FORMULA STRUCTURE Apalutamide 956104-40-8 C21-H15-F4-N5-O2-S Apalutamide 3 ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY References updated: 15 March 2023 Abbreviations: LHRH, luteinizing hormone releasing hormone, PSA, prostate-specific antigen. Zimmerman HJ. Hepatotoxic effects of oncotherapeutic and immunosuppressive agents. In, Zimmerman HJ. Hepatotoxicity: the adverse effects of drugs and other chemicals on the liver. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott, 1999, pp. 673-708. (Expert review of hepatotoxicity of cancer chemotherapeutic agents published in 1999 before the availability of apalutamide). DeLeve LD. Cancer chemotherapy. In, Kaplowitz N, DeLeve LD, eds. Drug-induced liver disease. 3rd ed. Amsterdam, Elsevier, 2013, p. 541-68. (Review of hepatotoxicity of cancer chemotherapeutic agents; apalutamide is not discussed). Isaacs C, Wellstein A, Riegel AT. Hormones and related agents in the therapy of cancer. Natural products in cancer chemotherapy: hormones and related agents. In, Brunton LL, Hilal-Dandan R, Knollman BC, eds. Goodman & Gilman's the pharmacological basis of therapeutics. 13th ed. New York: McGraw-Hill, 2018, pp. 1237-48. (Textbook of pharmacology and therapeutics discusses the androgen receptor antagonists flutamide, bicalutamide, nilutamide and enzalutamide, but not apalutamide). FDA. Available at: (FDA Drug
