Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


Clinical Infectious Diseases IDSA GUIDELINE Clinical Practice Guidelines for Clostridium difficile Infection in Adults and Children: 2017 Update by the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) and Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of America (SHEA) L. Clifford McDonald,1 Dale N. Gerding,2 Stuart Johnson,2,3 Johan S. Bakken,4 Karen C. Carroll,5 Susan E. Coffin,6 Erik R. Dubberke,7 Kevin W. Garey,8 Carolyn V. Gould,1 Ciaran Kelly,9 Vivian Loo,10 Julia Shaklee Sammons,6 Thomas J. Sandora,11 and Mark H. Wilcox12 A panel of experts was convened by the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) and Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of has incorporated recommendations for children (following the adult recommendations for epidemiology, diagnosis, and treatment), includes significant changes in the management of this infection and reflects the evolving controversy over best methods for diag- nosis. Clostridium difficile remains the most important cause of healthcare-associated diarrhea and has become the most commonly identified cause of healthcare-associated infection in adults in the United States. Moreover, C. difficile has established itself as an important community pathogen. Although the prevalence of the epidemic and virulent ribotype 027 strain has declined markedly along with overall CDI rates in parts of Europe, it remains one of the most commonly identified strains in the United States where it causes a sizable minority of CDIs, especially healthcare-associated CDIs. This guideline updates recommendations regarding epi- demiology, diagnosis, treatment, infection prevention, and environmental management. Keywords. Clostridium difficile; Clostridioides difficile; Guidelines; CDI; CDAD. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY are presented. The panel followed a process used in the develop- Summarized below are recommendations intended to improve the ment of other Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) diagnosis and management of Clostridium difficile infection (CDI) guidelines, which included a systematic weighting of the strength in adults and children. CDI is defined by the presence of symp- of recommendation and quality of evidence using the GRADE toms (usually diarrhea) and either a stool test positive for C. diffi- (Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and cile toxins or detection of toxigenic C. difficile, or colonoscopic or Evaluation) system (Figure 1). A detailed description of the meth- histopathologic findings revealing pseudomembranous colitis. In ods, background, and evidence summaries that support each of addition to diagnosis and management, recommended methods of the recommendations can be found in the full text of the guide- infection control and environmental management of the pathogen lines. The extent to which these guidelines can be implemented is impacted by the size
