Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


in the full text of the guide- infection control and environmental management of the pathogen lines. The extent to which these guidelines can be implemented is impacted by the size of the institution and the resources, both It is important to realize that guidelines cannot always account for individual variation among patients. They are not intended to supplant physician judgment with respect to particular patients GUIDELINE RECOMMENDATIONS FOR CLOSTRIDIUM or special clinical situations. IDSA and SHEA consider adherence to the guidelines listed below DIFFICILE INFECTION to be voluntary, with the ultimate determination regarding their application to be made by the physician in the light of each patient’s individual circumstances. While IDSA makes every effort EPIDEMIOLOGY to present accurate and reliable information, the information provided in these guidelines is “as is” without any warranty of accuracy, reliability, or otherwise, either express or implied. Neither I. How are CDI cases best defined? IDSA nor its officers, directors, members, employees, or agents will be liable for any loss, dam- Recommendation age, or claim with respect to any liabilities, including direct, special, indirect, or consequential damages, incurred in connection with these guidelines or reliance on the information presented. Road, MS A35, Atlanta, GA 30333 (). standardized case definitions for surveillance of (1) healthcare © The Author(s) 2018. Published by Oxford University Press for the Infectious Diseases Society ity–associated (CO-HCFA) CDI; and (3) community-associated DOI: (CA) CDI (good practice recommendation). Clinical Practice Guidelines for Clostridium difficile Infection • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • e1 Figure 1. Approach and implications to rating the quality of evidence and strength of recommendations using the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) methodology (unrestricted use of this figure granted by the US GRADE Network) [1–4]. II. What is the minimal surveillance recommendation for institu- IV. How should CDI surveillance be approached in settings of high tions with limited resources? endemic rates or outbreaks? Recommendation Recommendation 1. At a minimum, conduct surveillance for HO-CDI in all in- 1. Stratify data by patient location to target control measures patient healthcare facilities to detect elevated rates or out- when CDI incidence is above national and/or facility reduc- breaks of CDI within the facility (weak recommendation, low tion goals or if an outbreak is noted (weak recommendation, quality of evidence). low quality of evidence). EPIDEMIOLOGY (PEDIATRIC CONSIDERATIONS) III. What is the best way to express CDI incidence and rates? V. What is
