Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


outbreak is noted (weak recommendation, quality of evidence). low quality of evidence). EPIDEMIOLOGY (PEDIATRIC CONSIDERATIONS) III. What is the best way to express CDI incidence and rates? V. What is the recommended CDI surveillance strategy for pedi- Recommendation atric institutions? 1. Express the rate of HO-CDI as the number of cases per 10 000 Recommendations patient-days. Express the CO-HCFA prevalence rate as the number of cases per 1000 patient admissions (good practice 1. Use the same standardized case definitions (HO, CO-HCFA, recommendation). CA) and rate expression (cases per 10 000 patient-days for HO, e2 • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • McDonald et al cases per 1000 patient admissions for CO-HCFA) in pedi- NAAT plus toxin) rather than a NAAT alone for all speci- atric patients as for adults (good practice recommendation). mens received in the clinical laboratory when there are no 2. Conduct surveillance for HO-CDI for inpatient pediatric preagreed institutional criteria for patient stool submission ommendation, low quality of evidence). 3. Consider surveillance for CA-CDI to detect trends in the community (weak recommendation, low quality of evidence). VIII. What is the most sensitive method of diagnosis of CDI in stool specimens from patients likely to have CDI based on clinical symptoms? DIAGNOSIS Recommendation VI. What is the preferred population for C. difficile testing, and should efforts be made to achieve this target? 1. Use a NAAT alone or a multistep algorithm for testing (ie, Recommendation GDH plus toxin; GDH plus toxin, arbitrated by NAAT; or NAAT plus toxin) rather than a toxin test alone when there 1. Patients with unexplained and new-onset ≥3 unformed stools are preagreed institutional criteria for patient stool sub- in 24 hours are the preferred target population for testing for mission (Figure 2) (weak recommendation, low quality of CDI (weak recommendation, very low quality of evidence). evidence). VII. What is the best-performing method (ie, in use positive and IX. What is the role of repeat testing, if any? Are there asymptom- negative predictive value) for detecting patients at increased risk atic patients in whom repeat testing should be allowed, including for clinically significant C. difficile infection in commonly submit- test of cure? ted stool specimens? Recommendation Recommendation 1. Do not perform repeat testing (within 7 days) during the tamate dehydrogenase [GDH] plus toxin; GDH plus toxin, tomatic patients, except for epidemiological studies (strong arbitrated by nucleic acid amplification test [NAAT]; or recommendation, moderate quality of
