Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


days) during the tamate dehydrogenase [GDH] plus toxin; GDH plus toxin, tomatic patients, except for epidemiological studies (strong arbitrated by nucleic acid amplification test [NAAT]; or recommendation, moderate quality of evidence). Figure 2. Clostridium difficile infection laboratory test recommendations based on preagreed institutional criteria for patient stool submission. Abbreviations: CDI, Clostridium difficile infection; EIA, enzyme immunoassay; GDH, glutamate dehydrogenase; NAAT, nucleic acid amplification test. Clinical Practice Guidelines for Clostridium difficile Infection • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • e3 X. Does detection of fecal lactoferrin or another biologic marker Enterococcus (strong recommendation, moderate quality of improve the diagnosis of CDI over and above the detection of toxi- evidence). genic C. difficile Can such a subset predict a more ill cohort? Recommendation XIV. Should gloves and gowns be worn while caring for isolated 1. There are insufficient data to recommend use of biologic CDI patients? markers as an adjunct to diagnosis (no recommendation). Recommendation DIAGNOSIS (PEDIATRIC CONSIDERATIONS) 1. Healthcare personnel must use gloves (strong recommen- XI. When should a neonate or infant be tested for C. difficile? dation, high quality of evidence) and gowns (strong rec- ommendation, moderate quality of evidence) on entry to a Recommendations room of a patient with CDI and while caring for patients with CDI. 1. Because of the high prevalence of asymptomatic carriage of toxigenic C. difficile in infants, testing for CDI should never be routinely recommended for neonates or infants XV. When should isolation be implemented? ≤12 months of age with diarrhea (strong recommendation, Recommendation moderate quality of evidence). 1. Patients with suspected CDI should be placed on preemptive XII. When should a toddler or older child be tested for C. difficile? contact precautions pending the C. difficile test results if test results cannot be obtained on the same day (strong recom- Recommendations mendation, moderate quality of evidence). 1. Clostridium difficile testing should not be routinely per- formed in children with diarrhea who are 1–2 years of age XVI. How long should isolation be continued? unless other infectious or noninfectious causes have been Recommendations excluded (weak recommendation, low quality of evidence). 2. In children ≥2 years of age, C. difficile testing is recom- 1. Continue contact precautions for at least 48 hours after mended for patients with prolonged or worsening diarrhea diarrhea has resolved (weak recommendation, low quality of and risk factors (eg, underlying inflammatory bowel disease evidence). or immunocompromising conditions) or relevant exposures 2. Prolong
