Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


with prolonged or worsening diarrhea diarrhea has resolved (weak recommendation, low quality of and risk factors (eg, underlying inflammatory bowel disease evidence). or immunocompromising conditions) or relevant exposures 2. Prolong contact precautions until discharge if CDI rates (eg, contact with the healthcare system or recent antibiotics) remain high despite implementation of standard infection (weak recommendation, moderate quality of evidence). control measures against CDI (weak recommendation, low quality of evidence). INFECTION PREVENTION AND CONTROL Isolation Measures for Patients With CDI XVII. What is the recommended hand hygiene method (assuming XIII. Should private rooms and/or dedicated toilet facilities be glove use) when caring for patients in isolation for CDI? used for isolated patients with CDI? Recommendations Recommendations 1. In routine or endemic settings, perform hand hygiene before 1. Accommodate patients with CDI in a private room with a and after contact of a patient with CDI and after removing dedicated toilet to decrease transmission to other patients. gloves with either soap and water or an alcohol-based hand If there is a limited number of private single rooms, priori- hygiene product (strong recommendation, moderate quality of tize patients with stool incontinence for placement in private evidence). rooms (strong recommendation, moderate quality of evidence). 2. In CDI outbreaks or hyperendemic (sustained high rates) set- 2. If cohorting is required, it is recommended to cohort tings, perform hand hygiene with soap and water preferen- patients infected or colonized with the same organism(s)— tially instead of alcohol-based hand hygiene products before for other multidrug-resistant organisms such as methicil- efficacy of spore removal with soap and water (weak recom- lin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus or vancomycin-resistant mendation, low quality of evidence). e4 • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • McDonald et al 3. Handwashing with soap and water is preferred if there is XXIII. What is the role of daily sporicidal disinfection? direct contact with feces or an area where fecal contam- Recommendation ination is likely (eg, the perineal region) (good practice recommendation). 1. Daily cleaning with a sporicidal agent should be considered in conjunction with other measures to prevent CDI during XVIII. Should patient bathing interventions be implemented to outbreaks or in hyperendemic (sustained high rates) settings, prevent CDI? or if there is evidence of repeated cases of CDI in the same room (weak recommendation, low quality of evidence). Recommendation 1. Encourage patients to wash hands and shower to re- XXIV. Should asymptomatic carriers of C. difficile be identified
