Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


in the same room (weak recommendation, low quality of evidence). Recommendation 1. Encourage patients to wash hands and shower to re- XXIV. Should asymptomatic carriers of C. difficile be identified and duce the burden of spores on the skin (good practice isolated if positive? recommendation). Recommendation XIX. Should noncritical devices or equipment be dedicated to or 1. There are insufficient data to recommend screening for specially cleaned after being used on the isolated patient with CDI? asymptomatic carriage and placing asymptomatic carriers on contact precautions (no recommendation). Recommendation 1. Use disposable patient equipment when possible and en- XXV. What is the role of antibiotic stewardship in controlling sure that reusable equipment is thoroughly cleaned and dis- CDI rates? infected, preferentially with a sporicidal disinfectant that is Recommendations equipment compatible (strong recommendation, moderate quality of evidence). 1. Minimize the frequency and duration of high-risk antibiotic therapy and the number of antibiotic agents prescribed, to reduce CDI risk (strong recommendation, moderate quality of evidence). XX. What is the role of manual, terminal disinfection using a 2. Implement an antibiotic stewardship program (good practice C. difficile sporicidal agent for patients in isolation for CDI? recommendation). Recommendation 3. Antibiotics to be targeted should be based on the local epi- demiology and the C. difficile strains present. Restriction of 1. Terminal room cleaning with a sporicidal agent should be fluoroquinolones, clindamycin, and cephalosporins (except considered in conjunction with other measures to prevent for surgical antibiotic prophylaxis) should be considered CDI during endemic high rates or outbreaks, or if there is (strong recommendation, moderate quality of evidence). evidence of repeated cases of CDI in the same room (weak recommendation, low quality of evidence). XXVI. What is the role of proton pump inhibitor restriction in XXI. Should cleaning adequacy be evaluated? controlling CDI rates? Recommendation Recommendation 1. Incorporate measures of cleaning effectiveness to en- 1. Although there is an epidemiologic association between sure quality of environmental cleaning (good practice proton pump inhibitor (PPI) use and CDI, and unnecessary recommendation). PPIs should always be discontinued, there is insufficient evi- dence for discontinuation of PPIs as a measure for preventing CDI (no recommendation). XXII.What is the role of automated terminal disinfection using a method that is sporicidal against C. difficile? XXVII. What is the role of probiotics in primary prevention of CDI? Recommendation Recommendation 1. There are limited data at this time to recommend use of auto- 1. There
