Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


difficile? XXVII. What is the role of probiotics in primary prevention of CDI? Recommendation Recommendation 1. There are limited data at this time to recommend use of auto- 1. There are insufficient data at this time to recommend admin- mated, terminal disinfection using a sporicidal method for istration of probiotics for primary prevention of CDI outside CDI prevention (no recommendation). of clinical trials (no recommendation). Clinical Practice Guidelines for Clostridium difficile Infection • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • e5 TREATMENT 200 mg twice daily for 10 days (strong recommendation, high XXVIII. What are important ancillary treatment strategies quality of evidence) (Table 1). for CDI? 2. In settings where access to vancomycin or fidaxomicin is lim- Recommendations ited, we suggest using metronidazole for an initial episode of nonsevere CDI only (weak recommendation, high quality 1. Discontinue therapy with the inciting antibiotic agent(s) of evidence). The suggested dosage is metronidazole 500 mg as soon as possible, as this may influence the risk of CDI orally 3 times per day for 10 days. Avoid repeated or prolonged recurrence (strong recommendation, moderate quality of courses due to risk of cumulative and potentially irreversible evidence). neurotoxicity (strong recommendation, moderate quality of evi- 2. Antibiotic therapy for CDI should be started empirically for dence). (See Treatment section for definition of CDI severity.) situations where a substantial delay in laboratory confirm- ation is expected, or for fulminant CDI (described in section XXX. What are the best treatments of fulminant CDI? XXX) (weak recommendation, low quality of evidence). Recommendations XXIX. What are the best treatments of an initial CDI episode to 1. For fulminant CDI*, vancomycin administered orally is the ensure resolution of symptoms and sustained resolution 1 month regimen of choice (strong recommendation, moderate qual- after treatment? ity of evidence). If ileus is present, vancomycin can also be Recommendations administered per rectum (weak recommendation, low quality of evidence). The vancomycin dosage is 500 mg orally 4 times 1. Either vancomycin or fidaxomicin is recommended over per day and 500 mg in approximately 100 mL normal saline metronidazole for an initial episode of CDI. The dosage is per rectum every 6 hours as a retention enema. Intravenously vancomycin 125 mg orally 4 times per day or fidaxomicin administered metronidazole should be administered together Table 1. Recommendations for the Treatment of Clostridium difficile Infection in Adults Strength of Recommendation/ Clinical Definition Supportive Clinical Data Recommended Treatmenta Quality of Evidence
