Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


trials have compared 10-day treatment courses, but some patients (particularly those treated with metronidazole) may have delayed response to treatment and clinicians should consider extending treatment duration to 14 days in those circumstances. bThe criteria proposed for defining severe or fulminant Clostridium difficile infection (CDI) are based on expert opinion. These may need to be reviewed in the future upon publication of pro- spectively validated severity scores for patients with CDI. cThe opinion of the panel is that appropriate antibiotic treatments for at least 2 recurrences (ie, 3 CDI episodes) should be tried prior to offering fecal microbiota transplantation. e6 • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • McDonald et al with oral or rectal vancomycin, particularly if ileus is pres- 4. Antibiotic treatment options for patients with >1 recur- ent (strong recommendation, moderate quality of evidence). rence of CDI include oral vancomycin therapy using a The metronidazole dosage is 500 mg intravenously every 8 tapered and pulsed regimen (weak recommendation, low hours.* quality of evidence), a standard course of oral vancomycin *Fulminant CDI, previously referred to as severe, complicated followed by rifaximin (weak recommendation, low quality CDI, may be characterized by hypotension or shock, ileus, or of evidence), or fidaxomicin (weak recommendation, low megacolon. quality of evidence). 2. If surgical management is necessary for severely ill patients, 5. Fecal microbiota transplantation is recommended for perform subtotal colectomy with preservation of the rec- patients with multiple recurrences of CDI who have failed tum (strong recommendation, moderate quality of evidence). appropriate antibiotic treatments (strong recommendation, Diverting loop ileostomy with colonic lavage followed by moderate quality of evidence). antegrade vancomycin flushes is an alternative approach that 6. There are insufficient data at this time to recommend may lead to improved outcomes (weak recommendation, low extending the length of anti–C. difficile treatment beyond quality of evidence). the recommended treatment course or restarting an anti–C. difficile agent empirically for patients who require continued antibiotic therapy directed against the underly- XXXI. What are the best treatments for recurrent CDI? ing infection or who require retreatment with antibiotics Recommendations shortly after completion of CDI treatment, respectively (no recommendation). 1. Treat a first recurrence of CDI with oral vancomycin as a tapered and pulsed regimen rather than a second standard 10-day course of vancomycin (weak recommendation, low TREATMENT (PEDIATRIC CONSIDERATIONS) quality of evidence), OR XXXII. What is the best treatment of an initial episode or first 2. Treat a
