Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


metronidazole to oral vancomycin. bTapered and pulsed regimen: vancomycin 10 mg/kg with max of 125 mg 4 times per day for 10–14 days, then 10 mg/kg with max of 125 mg 2 times per day for a week, then 10 mg/kg with max of 125 mg once per day for a week, and then 10 mg/kg with max of 125 mg every 2 or 3 days for 2–8 weeks. cNo pediatric dosing for rifaximin; not approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for use in children <12 years of age. Clinical Practice Guidelines for Clostridium difficile Infection • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • e7 XXXIII. What is the best treatment of an initial episode of severe revised and updated. There are no updates in the clinical defin- CDI in children? ition of CDI or the clinical manifestations of CDI. The reader is referred to the 2010 guideline for the definition, background Recommendation 1. For children with an initial episode of severe CDI, oral van- Since completion of this guideline, a new therapeutic agent comycin is recommended over metronidazole (strong recom- and a molecular diagnostic test platform have become available mendation, moderate quality of evidence). for CDI. Bezlotoxumab, a monoclonal antibody directed against toxin B produced by C. difficile, has been approved as adjunctive XXXIV. What are the best treatments for a second or greater epi- therapy for patients who are receiving antibiotic treatment for sode of recurrent CDI in children? CDI and who are at high risk for recurrence . Multiplex pol- ymerase chain reaction (PCR) platforms that detect C. difficile Recommendation as part of a panel of >20 different enteric pathogens have also become available . These most recent innovations and other 1. For children with a second or greater episode of recurrent innovations that may become available in the near future will be CDI, oral vancomycin is recommended over metronidazole covered in subsequent guideline updates. (weak recommendation, low quality of evidence). METHODOLOGY XXXV. Is there a role for fecal microbiota transplantation in chil- dren with recurrent CDI? Practice Guidelines Recommendation “Clinical practice guidelines are statements that include recom- mendations intended to optimize patient care that are informed 1. Consider fecal microbiota transplantation for pediatric by a systematic review of evidence and an assessment of the patients with multiple recurrences of CDI following standard benefits and harms of alternative care options” . antibiotic treatments (weak recommendation, very low
