Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


review of evidence and an assessment of the patients with multiple recurrences of CDI following standard benefits and harms of alternative care options” . antibiotic treatments (weak recommendation, very low quality of evidence). Panel Composition A panel of 14 multidisciplinary experts in the epidemiology, INTRODUCTION Since publication of the 2010 Infectious Diseases Society of and pediatric patients with CDI was convened to develop these America (IDSA)/Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of practice guidelines. A systematic evidence-based approach was practice guideline, there has been continued expanding inter- tion, comparator, outcome (PICO) formulations, the selection est in the epidemiology, prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of patient-important outcomes, as well as the literature searches of CDI. This reflects the ongoing magnitude of these infections and screening of the uncovered citations and articles. The rat- impacting all aspects of healthcare delivery and reaching out into ing of the quality of evidence and strength of recommendation the community. Also new since the previous guidelines, quality was supported by a Grading of Recommendations Assessment, of evidence and strength of recommendations was evaluated Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) methodologist. In add- using GRADE methodology [1–4]. While there is evidence that ition to members of both IDSA and SHEA, representatives from of Europe since their peak before 2010, rates have plateaued at the Society of Infectious Diseases Pharmacists (SIDP), and the historic highs in the United States since about 2010 . Recent Pediatric Infectious Diseases Society (PIDS) were included. estimates suggest the US burden of CDI is close to 500 000 infec- tions annually, although the exact magnitude of burden is highly Literature Review and Analysis dependent upon the type of diagnostic tests used . Depending For this 2017 guideline update, search strategies, in collabor- upon the degree and method of attribution, CDI is associated ation with the guideline panel members, were developed and of CDI, national efforts to control and prevent CDI have been medical subject headings and text words for “Clostridium dif- put in place including incentives for public reporting of hos- ficile,” limited to human studies or nonindexed citations. In undermining both patient safety and the efficiency and value platform was used to search 5 electronic evidence databases: of healthcare delivery, that the 2010 recommendations are now Medline, Embase, Cochrane Central Registry of Controlled e8 • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • McDonald et al Abstracts of Reviews of Effects. and approved by the IDSA Standards and Practice Guidelines
