Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


Embase, Cochrane Central Registry of Controlled e8 • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • McDonald et al Abstracts of Reviews of Effects. and approved by the IDSA Standards and Practice Guidelines To supplement the electronic search, reviewers also Committee (SPGC) and SHEA Guidelines Committee as well as hand-searched relevant journals, conference proceedings, both organizations’ respective Board of Directors (BOD). The reference lists from manuscripts retained from electronic guideline was endorsed by ASHP, SIDP, and PIDS. searches, and regulatory agency web sites for relevant arti- cles. Literature searches were originally implemented on Guidelines and Conflicts of Interest 4 December 2012, updated on 3 March 2014, and further All members of the expert panel complied with the IDSA extended to 31 December 2016. The 2010 guideline used a policy on conflicts of interest, which requires disclosure of search cutoff of 2009 and thus for this guideline, the litera- any financial, intellectual, or other interest that might be ture review included a defined search period of 2009–2016. construed as constituting an actual, potential, or apparent Separate, nondiscrete evidence libraries were created for conflict. To provide thorough transparency, IDSA requires adults and pediatrics. The result of the searching was 14 479 full disclosure of all relationships, regardless of relevancy citations being eligible at title and abstract phase of screen- to the guideline topic . Evaluation of such relation- ing for the adult literature. As the 2010 guideline did not ships as potential conflicts of interest (COI) is determined address pediatrics as part of any searching, a decision was by a review process that includes assessment by the SPGC made to reexamine the evidence landscape for pediatric-re- chair, the SPGC liaison to the development panel, and the lated studies that could inform the guideline. For this, the BOD liaison to the SPGC, and, if necessary, the COI Task period of 1977–2016 was searched, yielding 3572 citations Force of the Board. This assessment of disclosed relation- eligible at title and abstract phase. Those retained at the title ships for possible COI is based on the relative weight of the and abstract phase of screening were then examined at the financial relationship (ie, monetary amount) and the rele- full-text phase. vance of the relationship (ie, the degree to which an asso- ciation might reasonably be interpreted by an independent Process Overview observer as related to the topic or recommendation of con- To evaluate the initial search evidence for
