Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


which an asso- ciation might reasonably be interpreted by an independent Process Overview observer as related to the topic or recommendation of con- To evaluate the initial search evidence for eligibility, the panel fol- sideration). See Acknowledgments section for disclosures lowed a process consistent with other IDSA guidelines. The pro- reported to IDSA. cess for evaluating the evidence was based on the IDSA Handbook on Clinical Practice Guideline Development and involved a sys- Revision Dates tematic weighting of the quality of the evidence and the grade At annual intervals and more frequently if needed, IDSA of recommendation using the GRADE system (Figure 1) [1–4]. and SHEA will determine the need for revisions to the Each author was asked to review the literature (based on guideline on the basis of an examination of the current screening examination of titles and abstracts and manuscript literature and the likelihood that any new data will have full-text examination, as well as abstraction of relevant variables/ an impact on the recommendations. If necessary, the data from eligible studies/reports), evaluate the evidence, and entire expert panel will be reconvened to discuss potential determine the strength of the recommendations along with an changes. Any revision to the guideline will be submitted evidence summary supporting each recommendation. The panel for review and approval to the appropriate Committees and reviewed all recommendations, their strength, and quality of evi- Boards of IDSA and SHEA. dence. For recommendations in the category of good practice statements that should not be graded, we followed published GUIDELINE RECOMMENDATIONS FOR CLOSTRIDIUM principles by the GRADE working group on how to identify such DIFFICILE INFECTION recommendations and use appropriate wording choices . EPIDEMIOLOGY Accordingly, a formal GRADE rating was not pursued for those statements as these statements would make it clear that they I. How are CDI cases best defined? thus a study would not be warranted to address such a question. Recommendation Discrepancies were discussed and resolved, and all panel mem- available standardized case definitions for surveillance Consensus Development Based on Evidence of (1) healthcare facility-onset (HO) CDI; (2) communi- The panel met face-to-face on 3 occasions and conducted ty-onset, healthcare facility–associated (CO-HCFA) CDI; numerous monthly subgroup and full panel conference calls and (3) community-associated (CA) CDI (good practice to complete the work of the guideline. The panel as a whole recommendation). Clinical Practice Guidelines for Clostridium difficile Infection • CID 2018:66 (1 April) •
