Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


(CA) CDI (good practice to complete the work of the guideline. The panel as a whole recommendation). Clinical Practice Guidelines for Clostridium difficile Infection • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • e9 II. What is the minimal surveillance recommendation for institu- Because the risk of CDI increases with the length of stay, the tions with limited resources? most appropriate denominator for HO-CDI rates is the number of patient-days. If a facility notes an increase in the incidence Recommendation of CDI from the baseline rate, or if the incidence is higher than in comparable institutions or above national and/or facility re- 1. At a minimum, conduct surveillance for HO-CDI in all inpatient healthcare facilities to detect elevated rates or outbreaks of CDI location or clinical service to identify particular patient popu- within the facility (weak recommendation, low quality of evidence). lations where infection prevention measures may be targeted. In addition, measures should be considered for tracking severe III. What is the best way to express CDI incidence and rates? outcomes, such as colectomy, intensive care unit (ICU) admis- Recommendation sion, or death, attributable to CDI. In the United States, CDI surveillance in healthcare facil- 1. Express the rate of HO-CDI as the number of cases per 10 000 ities is conducted via the CDC’s NHSN Multidrug-Resistant patient-days. Express the CO-HCFA prevalence rate as the Organism and C. difficile Infection Module LabID Event number of cases per 1000 patient admissions (good practice Reporting . To allow for risk-adjusted reporting of recommendation). healthcare-associated infections (HAIs), CDC calculates the standardized infection ratio (SIR) by dividing the number of observed events by the number of predicted events. The IV. How should CDI surveillance be approached in settings of high number of predicted events is calculated using LabID proba- endemic rates or outbreaks? bilities estimated from models constructed from NHSN data Recommendation during a baseline time period, which represents a standard population . These have been recently updated using a 1. Stratify data by patient location to target control measures 2015 baseline period with specific models developed for when CDI incidence is above national and/or facility reduc- each of 4 facility types: acute care hospitals, long-term acute tion goals or if an outbreak is noted (weak recommendation, care hospitals, critical access hospitals (rural hospitals with low quality of evidence). ≤25 acute care inpatient beds), and inpatient rehabilitation facilities . Use of more sensitive tests (eg, NAATs) for
