Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


care hospitals, critical access hospitals (rural hospitals with low quality of evidence). ≤25 acute care inpatient beds), and inpatient rehabilitation facilities . Use of more sensitive tests (eg, NAATs) for C. difficile have been demonstrated to result in substantial SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE increases in reported CDI incidence rates compared with Surveillance those derived from toxin detection by enzyme immunoassay A recommended case definition for surveillance requires (1) . Consistent with this, the impact of test type on facil- the presence of diarrhea or evidence of megacolon or severe ities’ reported rates is an independent predictor in each of ileus and (2) either a positive laboratory diagnostic test result the aforementioned NHSN risk adjustment models except or evidence of pseudomembranes demonstrated by endoscopy that for critical access hospitals . The prevalence of CO or histopathology. An incident case is defined as a new primary cases not associated with the facility (ie, defined in NHSN episode of symptom onset (ie, no episode of symptom onset as present-on-admission with no discharge from the same with positive result within the previous 8 weeks) and positive facility within the previous 4 weeks) is also associated with assay result (eg, toxin enzyme immunoassay [EIA] or nucleic HO-CDI . This likely reflects colonization pressure in acid amplification test [NAAT]). A recurrent case is defined as the admitted patient population, and is an independent pre- an episode of symptom onset and positive assay result following dictor in each of the NHSN risk adjustment models except for an episode with positive assay result in the previous 2–8 weeks. inpatient rehabilitation facilities . The minimum surveillance that should be performed by all Despite these attempts to risk-adjust based upon data healthcare facilities is tracking of healthcare facility–onset (HO) that hospitals are already reporting to NHSN, there are lim- cases, which will allow for detection of elevated rates or an out- itations. For example, adjustment by test type accounts for break within the facility . HO-CDI cases are defined by the only the pooled mean impact on rates resulting from differ- Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)’s National ences in sensitivity between major test categories (eg, NAAT, Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN) as Laboratory-Identified toxin EIA) and does not account for differences in sensitivity (LabID) Events collected >3 days after admission to the facility between individual test manufacturers, nor potential interac- (ie, on or after day 4) . Facilities may
