Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


and Asia . The recent isolates of the 027 cases did not report antibiotic exposure in the 12 weeks prior strain are more highly resistant to fluoroquinolones compared to infection, although medication exposures were self-reported to historic strains of the same type . This, coupled with and may have been subject to limitations in recall. Among increasing use of the fluoroquinolones worldwide likely pro- patients without reported antibiotic exposure, 31% received moted dissemination of a once uncommon strain . proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) . In another recent study, Consistent with the presence of one or more molecular a predictive risk scoring system developed in one cohort in a markers responsible for increased virulence, patients infected capitated-payment healthcare system and validated in another with the 027 epidemic strain in Montreal were shown to have cohort in the same system proved useful for differentiating CDI more-severe disease than patients infected with other strains risk in patients following an outpatient healthcare visit . . In a later Canadian multicenter study of hospitalized Major components of the scoring system included age, recent patients, the 027 strain was predominant among patients with inpatient stay, chronic conditions (eg, liver and kidney disease, CDI, whereas other strains were more common among asymp- inflammatory bowel disease [IBD], cancer), and antibiotics; the tomatically colonized patients . Similarly, in a sample of iso- role of PPIs was not examined or otherwise not included. lates and patient information collected from 10 CDC EIP sites Patients with IBD, especially ulcerative colitis, are at increased between 2009 and 2011, ribotype 027 was the most prevalent risk of not only primary CDI but also recurrent disease, as well strain (28.4%) and was associated with more severe disease, as increased morbidity and mortality from CDI. The risk of severe outcomes, and death than other strains, controlling for CDI within 5 years of a diagnosis of ulcerative colitis may be patient risk factors, healthcare exposure, and antibiotic use . >3% and worsens prognosis by increasing risk of colectomy, Since the emergence and spread of 027, recent data from postoperative complications, and death . Patients with IBD Europe suggest that the prevalence of this strain is decreasing. are 33% more likely to suffer recurrent CDI . There is an England has seen a dramatic decrease in 027 prevalence since increased colectomy risk from CDI occurrence in patients with the establishment of a nationwide ribotyping network in 2007
