Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


is an England has seen a dramatic decrease in 027 prevalence since increased colectomy risk from CDI occurrence in patients with the establishment of a nationwide ribotyping network in 2007 IBD overall, especially patients with ulcerative colitis . . Ribotype 027 decreased significantly between 2007 and Other patient populations at increased risk include solid 2010, dropping from 55% prevalence to 21%, coincident with organ transplant recipients: With an overall prevalence of 7.4%, significant decreases in reported CDI incidence and related rates in this population are 5-fold greater than among general mortality. The decrease in 027 prevalence was likely driven by medicine patients, and cases are associated with remarkable period , although increase in awareness and improved multiple solid organ transplants, followed by lung, liver, intes- infection control may also have impacted CDI incidence. tine, kidney, and pancreas with an overall prevalence of severe Continued molecular typing will enable detection of emerg- disease of 5.3% and risk of recurrence approximately 20% . ing C. difficile strains with novel virulence factors, risk factors, Patients with chronic kidney disease and end-stage renal dis- and antibiotic resistance patterns. For example, evidence of ease have an approximately 2- to 2.5-fold increased risk of CDI emergence of a virulent strain, ribotype 078, has been reported and recurrence, a 1.5-fold increased risk of severe disease, and from the Netherlands . The prevalence of ribotype 078 similarly increased mortality . Finally, hematopoietic increased between 2005 and 2008 and was associated with sim- stem cell transplant patients have a rate of CDI that is approxi- ilar severity compared to CDI cases due to ribotype 027, but mately 9 times greater than that in hospitalized patients overall; was associated with a younger population and more CA CDI. within this population, rates are about twice as high in allogen- There was also a high degree of genetic relatedness between 078 eic (vs autologous) transplants, where CDI occurs in about 1 e12 • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • McDonald et al in 10 transplants . Most of this risk is during the peritrans- CDI acquisition, this accounts for approximately 10% of CDI plantation period (ie, first 100 days posttransplant). cases, indicating other vectors are more common . There have also been outbreaks in which particular high-risk fomites, Epidemiology of Colonization and Infection such as electronic rectal thermometers or inadequately cleaned Clostridium difficile transmission resulting in disease in the commodes or bedpans, were
