Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


in which particular high-risk fomites, Epidemiology of Colonization and Infection such as electronic rectal thermometers or inadequately cleaned Clostridium difficile transmission resulting in disease in the commodes or bedpans, were shared between patients and were healthcare setting is most likely a result of person-to-person found to contribute to transmission . spread through the fecal–oral route or, alternatively, direct The potential role of asymptomatically colonized patients exposure to the contaminated environment. Studies have found in transmission has recently been highlighted. Using mul- that the prevalence of asymptomatic colonization with C. diffi- tilocus variable number of tandem repeats analysis, Curry cile is 3%–26% among adult inpatients in acute care hospitals et al found that 29% of CDI cases in a hospital were asso- and is 5%–7% among elderly patients in LTCFs [33, ciated with asymptomatic carriers, compared to 30% that 76]. In contrast, the prevalence of C. difficile in the stool among were associated with CDI patients . Similarly, 2 studies asymptomatic adults without recent healthcare facility exposure of hospitalized patients in the United Kingdom found that is <2% . A recent meta-analysis found that the pooled only 25%–35% of CDI cases were genetically linked to previ- (mostly since 2005 and through 2014) was 8.1% with the main transmission such as asymptomatic carriers and the environ- risk factor for such colonization being a previous hospitaliza- ment. In the Curry et al study, environmental transmission tion . Notably, neither antibiotic use nor previous CDI was may have occurred in 4 of 61 incident healthcare-associated associated with colonization on hospital admission CDI cases . The period between initial colonization with C. difficile and Two recent studies highlight how antibiotics may affect CDI the occurrence of CDI (ie, incubation period) was estimated in risk in hospitalized patients through impacting the contagious- 3 earlier studies to be a median of 2–3 days . However, ness of asymptomatically colonized patients. Through use of a recent evidence suggests a longer incubation period, even >1 multilevel model, ward-level antibiotic prescribing (ie, among week; Curry et al, in a study of asymptomatic C. difficile carriers, both CDI and non-CDI patients, therefore including potential found 7 of 100 patients with CDI that tested positive for highly asymptomatic carriers) was found to be a risk factor for CDI related C. difficile isolates 8–28 days prior to infection diagno- that was independent of the risk from antibiotics and other fac- sis . Other
