Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


be a risk factor for CDI related C. difficile isolates 8–28 days prior to infection diagno- that was independent of the risk from antibiotics and other fac- sis . Other early studies suggested that persons who remain tors in individual patients . Meanwhile, the individual risk asymptomatically colonized with C. difficile over longer periods of symptomatic CDI was found to be higher in patients admit- of time are at decreased, rather than increased, risk for develop- ted to a room where a previous patient without CDI was admin- ment of CDI [74, 80–82]. In contrast, the aforementioned recent istered antibiotics, suggesting induced shedding of C. difficile meta-analysis found that preceding colonization increased the from asymptomatic carriers . risk of subsequent CDI 6-fold; however, neither the time course Shedding of C. difficile spores is particularly high among from first detection of colonization to symptom onset nor the patients recently treated for CDI, even after resolution of diar- impact of diagnostic methods on this risk were examined . rhea , suggesting a population of asymptomatic carri- Thus it is likely that the daily risk of progression from col- ers who might be more likely to transmit the organism. In one onization to infection is not static but decreases over time; if study, the frequency of skin contamination and environmental so, the protection afforded by more long-standing colonization shedding remained high at the time of resolution of diarrhea may be mediated in part by the boosting of serum antibody (60% and 37%, respectively), decreased at the end of treatment, levels against C. difficile toxins A and B . It is also and increased again 1–4 weeks after treatment (58% and 50%, likely that as long as an individual is colonized by one strain respectively) . they are protected from infection caused by another strain; there is evidence of protection from CDI in both humans and Risk Factors for Disease in animal models following colonization with nontoxigenic Advanced age, potentially as a surrogate for severity of illness strains, suggesting competition for nutrients or access to the and comorbidities, is one of the most important risk factors mucosal surface . for CDI , as is duration of hospitalization. The daily increase in the risk of C. difficile acquisition during hospitaliza- Routes of Transmission tion suggests that duration of hospitalization may be a proxy for The hands of healthcare personnel, transiently contaminated the duration and degree
