Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


C. difficile acquisition during hospitaliza- Routes of Transmission tion suggests that duration of hospitalization may be a proxy for The hands of healthcare personnel, transiently contaminated the duration and degree of exposure to the organism, likelihood with C. difficile spores , and environmental contamination of exposure to antibiotics, and severity of underlying illness [46, [75, 85–88] are probably the main means by which the organ- 74, 98]. The most important modifiable risk factor for the devel- ism is spread within healthcare. Although occupying a room opment of CDI is exposure to antibiotic agents. Virtually every where a prior occupant had CDI is a significant risk factor for antibiotic has been associated with CDI through the years, but Clinical Practice Guidelines for Clostridium difficile Infection • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • e13 certain classes—third-/fourth-generation cephalosporins , controversial. Although a number of studies have suggested fluoroquinolones , carbapenems , and clin- an epidemiologic association between use of stomach acid– damycin —have been found to be high risk. Receipt suppressing medications, primarily PPIs, and CDI [37, 60, of antibiotics increases the risk of CDI because it suppresses 116–119], results of other well-controlled studies suggest this the normal bowel microbiota, thereby providing a “niche” for association is the result of confounding with the underlying given antibiotic agent and its association with CDI depends on stay . the local prevalence of strains that are highly resistant to that In a retrospective study of 754 patients with healthcare-associ- particular antibiotic agent . ated CDI, continuous use of PPIs was independently associated The disruption of the intestinal microbiota by antibiotics with a 50% increased risk for recurrence, whereas reexposure to is long-lasting, and risk of CDI increases both during therapy antibiotics was associated with only a 30% increased risk . and in the 3-month period following cessation of therapy. The Moreover, long-term use of PPIs has been shown to decrease highest risk of CDI (7- to 10-fold increase) appears to be dur- lower gastrointestinal microbial diversity . However, ing and in the first month after antibiotic exposure . Both whether as a risk factor for primary or recurrent disease, the longer exposure to antibiotics and exposure to multiple choice of control group in such epidemiologic studies is im- antibiotics increase the risk for CDI . Nonetheless, even portant. PPIs and histamine-2 blockers may be associated with very limited exposure, such as single-dose surgical antibiotic CDI when comparing
