Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


im- antibiotics increase the risk for CDI . Nonetheless, even portant. PPIs and histamine-2 blockers may be associated with very limited exposure, such as single-dose surgical antibiotic CDI when comparing cases to nontested controls but not when prophylaxis, increases a patient’s risk of C. difficile colonization comparing cases to tested-negative controls . This reflects and symptomatic disease . However, as previously noted, why understanding the role of these drugs in the pathogenesis asymptomatic colonization, at least as detected among patients of CDI remains elusive; PPIs induce diarrhea on their own, prior antibiotics . assessment of confounding factors, symptoms, and criteria for least in part, mediated by the antibiotic activity of several chem- may then explain why PPIs were not associated with recurrence immunosuppressive effects of neutropenia . Evidence suggests that C. difficile is an important pathogen causing bac- EPIDEMIOLOGY (PEDIATRIC CONSIDERATIONS) terial diarrhea in US patients infected with human immunode- V. What is the recommended CDI surveillance strategy for pediat- ric institutions? ficiency virus, which suggests that these patients are at specific increased risk because of their underlying immunosuppression, Recommendations exposure to antibiotics, exposure to healthcare settings, or some combination of those factors . Other risk factors for 1. Use the same standardized case definitions (HO, CO-HCFA, CDI include gastrointestinal surgery or manipulation of CA) and rate expression (cases per 10 000 patient-days for HO, the gastrointestinal tract, including tube feeding . Meta- cases per 1000 patient admissions for CO-HCFA) in pediat- analyses of risk factors for recurrence identified many of those ric patients as for adults (good practice recommendation). described above for initial CDI including advanced age, anti- 2. Conduct surveillance for HO-CDI for inpatient pediatric ous exposure to fluoroquinolones . Meanwhile, risk ommendation, low quality of evidence). factors for complicated disease include older age, leukocytosis, 3. Consider surveillance for CA-CDI to detect trends in the renal failure and comorbidities, while risk factors for mortality community (weak recommendation, low quality of evidence). from CDI alone include age, comorbidities, hypoalbuminemia, leukocytosis, acute renal failure, and infection with ribotype 027 . Recent data confirm the role of humoral immu- Summary of the Evidence nity, primarily directed against toxin B, at least for protecting Similar to the findings in adults, the incidence of CDI has risen against recurrent disease . There may be an important role in children since 2000 [124–129]. The majority of pediatric an independent risk factor among both general
