Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


of CDI has risen against recurrent disease . There may be an important role in children since 2000 [124–129]. The majority of pediatric an independent risk factor among both general patients with izations among multicenter cohorts of hospitalized children community-associated disease, older patients, and those with [126–128]. More recently, a population-based study of children underlying inflammatory bowel disease . residing in Olmsted County, Minnesota, between 1991 and Breaches in the protective effect of stomach acid or the anti- 2009 identified an increase in incidence of CDI among pediatric biotic activity of acid-suppressing medications, such as hista- residents from 2.6 to 32.6 per 100 000 using standard surveil- mine-2 blockers and PPIs, while a potential risk factor, remain lance definitions . e14 • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • McDonald et al The incidence of CDI has increased overall, including Severe disease and complications due to CDI are less com- increases in CDI among children in community and outpatient mon in children but have been described [164, settings . Using data from active population- and 165]. Among hospitalized children who are otherwise similar that 71% of pediatric CDI identified by positive C. difficile stool been associated with worse outcomes, including prolonged hos- limited by reliance on laboratory surveillance methods, where rates . differences in testing practices may undermine the accuracy of some longitudinal and interinstitutional comparisons of rates of DIAGNOSIS CDI in children . Nonetheless, these data indicate an VI. What is the preferred population for C. difficile testing, and should efforts be made to achieve this target? epidemiologic shift with increased disease in nonhospitalized children. Recommendation One important feature of the epidemiology of C. difficile in children is the presence of asymptomatic colonization with 1. Patients with unexplained and new-onset ≥3 unformed stools either toxigenic or nontoxigenic strains among many infants in 24 hours are the preferred target population for testing for and young children, with the highest rates (which can exceed CDI (weak recommendation, very low quality of evidence). 40%) in infants <12 months of age [134–141]. Nontoxigenic strains are more common than toxigenic strains among colo- nized infants, but colonization is transient and different strains Summary of the Evidence are found to colonize the same infant at different times [135, Determining the optimal number of episodes of diarrhea that 139, 142–144]. Colonization is less frequent among breastfed justifies the need for CDI testing depends on the likelihood as compared
