Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


[135, Determining the optimal number of episodes of diarrhea that 139, 142–144]. Colonization is less frequent among breastfed justifies the need for CDI testing depends on the likelihood as compared with bottle-fed infants [140, 145–147]. Some evi- of infection (high vs low CDI rates), potential confounders dence implicates the hospital environment as a source of acqui- (underlying diseases and/or medical or surgical interventions sition of colonizing strains [134, 135, 138, 143, 148–150]. that increase the chance of iatrogenic diarrhea), risk factors for Colonization rates decrease with increasing age [140, 147, CDI, and the chosen testing methods (high vs low specificity/ 151, 152]. The prevalence of asymptomatic colonization with predictive value methods). C. difficile is still elevated in the second year of life, although to If a patient has diarrheal symptoms not clearly attributable a lesser degree than in infants . Therefore, testing to underlying conditions (IBD, and therapies such as enteral in this population should also be avoided unless other infec- tube feeding, intensive cancer chemotherapy, or laxatives), then tious and noninfectious causes of diarrhea have been excluded. testing to determine if diarrhea is due to C. difficile is indicated. Consistent with the epidemiology of CDI in infants and young Alternatively, testing may be indicated if symptoms persist after children, the NHSN does not permit reporting of CDI from stopping therapies to which diarrhea may be otherwise attrib- newborn nurseries and neonatal ICU locations. Additionally, uted (eg, laxatives). However, some of these conditions and public reporting of cases in children <2 years of age is strongly interventions associated with diarrhea in their own right, such as discouraged. By 2–3 years of age, approximately 1%–3% of IBD and enteral tube feeding, have been shown to have increased children are asymptomatic carriers of C. difficile (a rate similar risk of CDI when compared with a matched cohort . So, in to that observed in healthy adults). While young children are practice it is difficult to exclude the possibility of CDI on clinical unlikely to have C. difficile infection, asymptomatically colo- grounds alone in a patient with new-onset or worsened diarrhea. nized infants and children may serve as a source of transmis- The evidence base to optimize CDI testing is weak. Clinical sion of the organism to adults, leading to C. difficile infection criteria for the diagnosis of CDI have altered as awareness of among adult contacts . CDI has increased. Notably, the
