Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


of the organism to adults, leading to C. difficile infection criteria for the diagnosis of CDI have altered as awareness of among adult contacts . CDI has increased. Notably, the number and frequency of diar- Many of the risk factors for C. difficile infection in children rheal stools required to justify CDI testing have declined over mirror those for adults, including recent antibiotic exposure, the past 40 years. Tedesco et al defined diarrhea as >5 loose hospitalization, and underlying complex chronic conditions stools per day in 1974 ; Teasley et al as >6 loose stools such as malignancy, solid organ transplant, and inflammatory over a period of 36 hours in 1983 ; Fekety et al as liq- bowel disease [126, 127, 157–160]. In children, the presence uid stools or >4 bowel movements per day for at least 3 days of a gastrostomy or jejunostomy tube has been found to be an in 1989 ; and Johnson et al as ≥3 loose or watery bowel additional independent risk factor . Recent studies suggest movements in 24 hours in 2013 . Using the latter defin- that acid-suppressing medications may also be an independent ition of diarrhea, Dubberke et al and Peterson et al (also using been more consistently observed in children who receive hista- these symptoms in patients whose stool is submitted for CDI mine-2 receptor antagonists than PPIs . testing . Peterson et al that found 39% of patients did Clinical Practice Guidelines for Clostridium difficile Infection • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • e15 not meet the minimal diarrhea definition and were dropped days. Once there is growth, the organism is identified by several from further analysis . methods including matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization– movements (type 6 or 7 stool on the Bristol Stool Chart) “horse barn odor” often heralds its presence. To enhance the in the 24 hours preceding stool collection, or diarrhea plus recovery of the organism, a spore selection step, whether heat or patient-reported abdominal pain or cramping. They found that alcohol shock, is applied to the stool prior to inoculating media. retained in the study . The authors caution that even in on the isolate to confirm its toxigenic potential. TC, although 19% within the previous 48 hours . The other reference method is the cell cytotoxicity neu- Clinicians can improve laboratory test relevance by only test- tralization assay (CCNA), which detects toxin directly in ing patients likely
