Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


. The other reference method is the cell cytotoxicity neu- Clinicians can improve laboratory test relevance by only test- tralization assay (CCNA), which detects toxin directly in ing patients likely to have C. difficile disease. This includes not stool. This assay begins with preparation of a stool filtrate, routinely performing testing on stool from a patient who has which is applied to a monolayer of an appropriate cell line, received a laxative within the previous 48 hours. Laboratories such as Vero cells, or human fibroblasts, among others. can improve specificity by rejecting specimens that are not Following incubation, the cells are observed for cytopathic liquid or soft (ie, take the shape of the container). In addition, effect (CPE); duplicate testing is usually carried out simul- laboratories may wish to collaborate with available quality taneously with neutralizing antibodies to Clostridium sordel- improvement teams such as infection prevention and control lii or C. difficile toxin, to ensure that the observed CPE is and antibiotic stewardship, to assess appropriateness of testing truly caused by C. difficile toxins and not by other substances in the population from which samples are submitted. This may in the stool. Incubation continues for up to 48 hours, but involve periodic chart review in a series of patients to assess for the majority of positives are detected after overnight incu- lacks standardization, although if optimized, it is one of the Laboratory Testing most sensitive and specific methods available for C. diffi- Two diagnostic testing recommendations based on institutional cile toxin detection. As laboratories abandoned their viral and laboratory preagreed criteria for patient stool submission cell culture facilities in favor of antigen and molecular tests, are prefaced by questions VII and VIII (Figure 2). CCNA became less popular. Enzyme immunoassays, initially for toxin A detection alone, and later both toxins, became VII. What is the best-performing method (ie, in use positive and available and replaced the above reference methods for rou- negative predictive value) for detecting patients at increased risk tine clinical testing in the late 1980s and early 1990s. EIAs for clinically significant C. difficile infection in commonly submit- use monoclonal or polyclonal antibodies to detect C. difficile ted stool specimens? toxins and there are numerous commercial assays available. Recommendation Performance is variable and their overall poor performance sparked development of other methods such as GDH immu- 1. Use a stool toxin test as part of a multistep algorithm
