Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


Recommendation Performance is variable and their overall poor performance sparked development of other methods such as GDH immu- 1. Use a stool toxin test as part of a multistep algorithm (ie, glu- noassays and molecular tests for toxin gene detection [174, tamate dehydrogenase [GDH] plus toxin; GDH plus toxin, 176, 177]. While toxin EIAs remain insensitive in the detec- arbitrated by NAAT; or NAAT plus toxin) rather than a tion of toxigenic C. difficile when compared with these suc- ratory when there are no preagreed institutional criteria for EIA tests. Results across both sponsored and nonsponsored patient stool submission (Figure 2) (weak recommendation, studies should be considered to select a relatively more sen- low quality of evidence). sitive EIA for general use . Also, there is some evidence that newer EIAs have improved sensitivity compared with Summary of the Evidence those examined in older studies . There is a variety of available options for laboratory testing to Glutamate dehydrogenase immunoassays detect the highly support the diagnosis of CDI, and these are well described in conserved metabolic enzyme (common antigen) present in several recent reviews . In brief, these methods detect high levels in all isolates of C. difficile. Since this antigen is pres- either the organism or one or both of its major toxins (A and ent in both toxigenic and nontoxigenic strains, GDH immu- B) directly in stool. Table 3 lists these methods in decreasing noassays lack specificity and must be combined with another order of analytical sensitivity. Toxigenic culture (TC) uses a (usually toxin) test. GDH testing is the initial screening step in prereduced selective agar, cycloserine-cefoxitin-fructose agar 2- and 3-step algorithms that combine it with a toxin test and/ or a variant of it, followed by anaerobic incubation for several or a molecular test for toxin gene detection. The combination e16 • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • McDonald et al Table 3. Summary of Available Tests for Clostridium difficile Infection, in Decreasing Order of Sensitivity Test Sensitivity Specificity Substance Detected Toxigenic culture High Lowa Clostridium difficile vegetative cells or spores Nucleic acid amplification tests High Low/moderate C. difficile nucleic acid (toxin genes) Glutamate dehydrogenase High Lowa C. difficile common antigen Cell culture cytotoxicity neutralization assay High High Free toxins Toxin A and B enzyme immunoassays Low Moderate Free toxins aMust be combined with a toxin test. has allowed for rapid results and improved sensitivity com- In 2011,
