Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


Free toxins Toxin A and B enzyme immunoassays Low Moderate Free toxins aMust be combined with a toxin test. has allowed for rapid results and improved sensitivity com- In 2011, Dubberke and colleagues performed an obser- . symptoms (>3 diarrheal bowel movements in the 24 hours Although NAATs for C. difficile detection in stool began to preceding stool collection, or diarrhea plus patient-reported appear in the literature in the early 1990s, the first US Food and abdominal pain or cramping) on interpretation of diagnos- Drug Administration (FDA)–cleared platform was not available tic assays for CDI . While the study is too small to draw in the United States until 2009 . There are at least 12 avail- definitive conclusions, it illustrates some important caveats able commercial platforms that detect a variety of gene targets about diagnostic evaluations. The authors evaluated 8 diagnos- including tcdA, tcdB, and 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA). These tic assays including 2 toxin EIAs, a test for GDH, a commer- assays are more sensitive for C. difficile detection than toxin cial CCNA assay, and 3 NAATs . TC was also performed EIAs (and possibly than GDH EIAs) but less sensitive than TC. for all specimens. Two reference standards were assessed, each However, the positive predictive value of NAATs for CDI is low with and without consideration of patient symptoms. The prev- to moderate depending upon disease prevalence and the limit alence of true CDI based upon a gold standard of clinically sig- of detection of the assay. nificant diarrhea and a positive TC was 11% . However, The optimum method for laboratory diagnosis of CDI this rate was determined only for the first 100 samples, and remains elusive as patients may harbor toxigenic strains and given the use of a relatively nonspecific (TC) testing method, studies soon after the discovery of C. difficile . In add- expected, given the choice of reference method (TC), the toxin ition, diarrhea in hospitalized patients is common and C. dif- tests detected fewer positive samples. Conversely, the GDH and ficile is the culprit in <30% and often in as little as 5%–10% NAATs detected the most positive samples. Compared with of patients [179–181]. Consensus regarding the best laboratory this TC gold standard, the least sensitive assays were the CCNA testing method is lacking. Much of the literature on diagnos- (62.9% sensitive, 95% CI, 46.3%–76.8%) and one of the toxin tic testing
