Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


standard, the least sensitive assays were the CCNA testing method is lacking. Much of the literature on diagnos- (62.9% sensitive, 95% CI, 46.3%–76.8%) and one of the toxin tic testing comparing laboratory methods is limited by use of A/B EIA tests (80.0% sensitive; 95% CI, 64.1%–90.0%) . an inappropriate comparative standard (ie, standards other The most sensitive methods (all >90%) were the GDH assay, all standardized (ie, CCNA or the toxigenic component of TC) all assays had a negative predictive value of > 95%, the posi- . Furthermore, use of an inappropriate comparative ref- tive predictive values (PPVs) for the GDH and NAATs were erence method is a recurring issue (eg, using TC to assess the <50%, suggesting that they were positive in many patients who accuracy of a toxin test when the correct comparator is CCNA). did not meet the clinical criteria for diarrhea . By con- In addition, comparative methods are often performed without trast, the TechLab toxin EIA PPV (notably when testing freeze- knowledge of the prevalence of true disease in the population thawed stools) was 59%. Other important observations from based on clinical presentation. There are very few studies that this study were that 19% of patients had received a laxative in mance. These are discussed below. Finally, much of the litera- were tested did not have clinically significant diarrhea, indicat- ture is derived from single centers and/or is underpowered to ing that improvements in validated criteria for deciding when achieve definitive conclusions upon which to base recommen- to test patients are needed . to gauging the strength of a recommendation using the type of demiological impact of transitioning from a 2-step algorithm, evidence currently available for diagnostic tests. which involved screening with GDH followed by a CCNA, Given these various conundrums and the paucity of large prospec- to NAAT for the diagnosis of CDI in a major cancer hospital tive studies, the recommendations, while strong in some instances, . Test performance for 128 samples was assessed in the are based upon a very low to low quality of evidence (Table 4). context of symptoms, severity of illness, and patient outcomes. Clinical Practice Guidelines for Clostridium difficile Infection • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • e17 e18 • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • McDonald et al elicfifid muidirtsolC rof sdohteM tseT citsongaiD fo snoitadnemmoceR rof ecnedivE .4 elbaT noissimbus loots tneitap rof airetirc lanoitutitsni deergaerp on era
