Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


colleagues discussed below . on diarrheal (84%) and nondiarrheal (16%) stool samples in Planche et al sought to validate the reference methods for patients in whom it may be very difficult to interpret the true C. difficile diagnosis, namely TC and CCNA testing according going intensive chemotherapy . There was no statistically nostic laboratory method . This was a large observational, significant difference in the clinical presentations at the onset multicenter study of 12 420 routinely submitted fecal samples. of infection and severity of disease between patients positive by The authors examined the results of the 2 reference assays (TC NAAT alone compared with those concordant for both NAAT and CCNA) along with 4 commercial methods—2 toxin A/B tive, NAAT-positive patients who were not treated, the only were collected (all patients had diarrhea but stool frequency was possible adverse outcome was recurrence in 3 patients; how- not known) and outcomes were assessed for 6522 inpatients who ever, only 15 (65%) had diarrhea on the day of testing . were stratified into 3 groups as follows: CCNA positive (group Recurrence of CDI was more common in patients when both 1; n = 435), TC positive but CCNA negative (group 2; n = 207), assays were positive than when NAAT alone was positive (31% and negative by both methods (group 3; n = 5880). On univari- vs 14%; P = .03). In summary, it is not clear what the results ate analysis, leukocytosis was greater in group 1 than group 2 or mean from this modestly sized cohort of difficult-to-interpret 3, and white blood cell (WBC) counts were similar in groups 2 cases (patients with high frequency of multifactorial diarrhea), and 3. However, both groups 1 and 2 had similarly low serum other than the impact of a 2-fold increase in reported C. diffi- albumin levels compared with group 3; group 2, but not group 1, cile rates when transitioning to the more sensitive, but probably had a higher mean rise in creatinine than group 3. Both groups 1 less specific NAAT method . and 2 had similarly longer mean lengths of stay (before and after Longtin et al assessed the impact of diagnostic test meth- testing) than group 3. All-cause 30-day mortality was markedly ods on CDI rates and the occurrence of complications based higher in group 1 (16.6%) than group 2 (9.7%) (P = .022). The upon the tests used
