Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


mortality was markedly ods on CDI rates and the occurrence of complications based higher in group 1 (16.6%) than group 2 (9.7%) (P = .022). The upon the tests used to diagnose CDI . This was a pro- mortality in group 2 was not significantly different from the con- spective cohort study in Quebec over a 1-year period . trol group (8.6%) . When the analysis was performed using CDI was defined by documented diarrhea of ≥3 loose or liquid NAAT in place of TC, the findings were similar, with the abso- stools in <24 hours and symptoms lasting ≥24 hours in com- lute difference in mortality between patients who were CCNA bination with a positive test for toxin-producing C. difficile positive vs those with NAAT positive but CCNA negative of or clinical diagnosis based upon histopathology or presence 6.9% (P = .004). The combination of GDH immunoassay plus of pseudomembranes on colonoscopy . Structured data toxin EIA (TechLab assay) was almost identical in performance collection forms were used to collect information prospec- to CCNA. In a multivariate logistic regression model, group 1 tively regarding complications and whether patients with pos- patients were older and had greater leukocytosis, serum creatin- itive tests met the case definition. All samples submitted to ine rise, depressed albumin, and 30-day mortality compared the laboratory were tested by a NAAT that detected the toxin with group 3 . Lengths of stay were not independently B gene and a 3-step algorithm that began with screening for associated with group 1, and all other group multivariate com- GDH followed by toxin A/B EIA testing . Samples pos- parisons, including mortality in group 1 vs 2, were not signifi- itive by both methods (NAAT and 3-step algorithm) were cant. The failure to find a mortality difference in groups 1 vs 2 on considered positive for C. difficile. GDH-positive, toxin EIA- multivariate analysis may be due to the much smaller number of negative samples were retested using a CCNA . Only patients in group 2 than in group 3. Another limitation was the NAAT results were reported to clinicians and infection con- relatively low prevalence of true disease in the tested population trol. A total of 1321 stool specimens from 888 patients were based upon the positivity rate of either the CCNA (5.9%) or TC assessed over the 1-year period, of which 17% were positive by (8.3%); this reflected
