Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


from 888 patients were based upon the positivity rate of either the CCNA (5.9%) or TC assessed over the 1-year period, of which 17% were positive by (8.3%); this reflected national endemic rates of CDI at that time. NAAT and 12.3% were positive by the 3-step algorithm . Clinical outcome data were available for 69% (143/206) of There were 85 cases of healthcare-associated CDI detected by inpatients with discordant reference method results. Of these Clinical Practice Guidelines for Clostridium difficile Infection • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • e19 patients, 75 (52%) who were TC positive but CCNA negative (37.7%) and 8% had toxins detected. While none of the patients received no CDI treatment. Among the 4 of 75 cases that were had CDI-related complications, one patient had CDI as a con- TC positive and CCNA negative who died and did not receive tributing factor to death. CDI treatment, none had a diagnosis of this infection on their During the early period, only 21 patients (13%) received a death certificate. Also, 64 of 143 (45%) patients with a discord- full course of treatment and close to 60% received no treatment ant reference method result did not have diarrhea recorded on . Likewise, in the later period (15–30 days after onset), their stool chart; for the remainder of the patients, the median most (78%) toxin-negative/PCR-positive patients received no duration of diarrhea was 2 days. treatment. During that period, patients who were toxin pos- The authors concluded that patients with a positive toxin itive were twice as likely to have repeat testing and 3 times test should be treated and those who are positive by TC and/or more likely to be positive compared with toxin-negative/PCR- NAAT alone could be considered “excretors” who may present positive patients. The authors conclude that toxin EIA positivity In the Planche et al study, based upon the assay comparison and outcomes in patients who were PCR positive alone were validation, the authors recommended using a multistep algo- comparable with those in patients who were negative by both rithm such as screening with GDH and confirming positives with tests. The use of molecular tests alone is likely to lead to over- a “sensitive” toxin A/B enzyme immunoassay , and this has diagnosis and overtreatment. There are several strengths of this been national UK policy since 2012. The 2 toxin EIAs used in the study including the large number of
