Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


was no difference in toxin EIA positiv- ative/PCR-negative patients (7.6% vs 0% vs 0.3%; P < .001). The ity between patients with mild vs severe disease (49% vs 58%; rate of CDI-related complications was similar between the PCR- P = .31) according to the criteria of Zar et al; however, patients positive/toxin-negative patients and patients who were negative with mild disease had a 2.7-fold lower all-cause mortality [187, by both tests (0% vs 0.3%; P > .99). In terms of mortality, simi- 188]. Although the toxin EIA–positive patients did have sig- among the toxin-positive/PCR-positive patients, one death that, because of similarly low toxin EIA positivity in both less- among the PCR alone cohort, and no deaths among the group and more-severe disease, NAAT-positive, EIA-negative results with negative tests (P < .001). The authors also assessed repeat are clinically meaningful and therefore a NAAT should be used testing and treatment within 14 days of onset of symptoms as for the diagnosis of CDI . This study is likely underpow- surrogates of ongoing clinical suspicion or empiric treatment ered and may suffer from bias based upon its retrospective for CDI in the toxin-negative/PCR-positive group, and again design and suboptimal choice of the toxin EIA; also, the ref- during the 15- to 30-day period following symptom onset to erence method used (toxigenic culture) for assessment of the assess recurrent or prolonged CDI during the latter time period. toxin EIA results was not ideal as this would have underesti- Sixty-one toxin-negative/PCR-positive patients were retested mated the sensitivity of the latter test. e20 • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • McDonald et al all unformed stools for testing, it is most appropriate to use a whether a rapid PCR assay correlated well and reliably with diagnostic approach that includes a test that is more specific for clinical CDI diagnosis . The GeneXpert C. difficile assay CDI, such as a relatively sensitive toxin test as part of a multi- was compared with CCNA and a GDH/Toxin A/B EIA algo- of multidisciplinary experts, served as the reference for evalu- VIII. What is the most sensitive method of diagnosis of CDI in ation of the different test performances (>1000 PCR and CCNA stool specimens from patients likely to have CDI based on clinical tests were performed). Sixty-two patients were both PCR and symptoms? CCNA positive and an additional 59 specimens were PCR pos- Recommendation itive alone, among which 54
