Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


CDI based on clinical tests were performed). Sixty-two patients were both PCR and symptoms? CCNA positive and an additional 59 specimens were PCR pos- Recommendation itive alone, among which 54 (91.5%) were in patients clinically diagnosed as having CDI. When the GDH screen was evalu- GDH plus toxin; GDH plus toxin, arbitrated by NAAT; or detected. Combining GDH and EIA testing, 59.7% of patients NAAT plus toxin) rather than a toxin test alone when there with CDI would have been missed (GDH positive, toxin EIA are preagreed institutional criteria for patient stool submission negative). Patients who were CCNA positive/PCR positive (Figure 2) (weak recommendation, low quality of evidence). had higher all-cause 30-day mortality compared with CCNA- negative/PCR-positive patients. This study only presented Summary of the Evidence results obtained after repeat testing of indeterminate results. the validation of a molecular test was by Peterson et al . ence, is much higher than found elsewhere . Patients were This study was performed prior to the availability of the first not followed long term to assess other clinical outcomes. FDA-cleared molecular assay using an in-house developed In summary, if patients are screened carefully for clin- assay that detected the toxin B gene (tcdB). This real-time ical symptoms likely associated with CDI (at least 3 loose or PCR test was compared with TC, a toxin EIA, and an in-house unformed stools in ≤24 hours with history of antibiotic expos- ficile disease was used for both the retrospective and prospec- by NAAT; or NAAT plus toxin) may be best. A 2- or 3-stage tive investigations . Toxigenic culture was used as the approach increases the PPV vs one-stage testing. reference method for other assay comparisons for the retro- spective study and the reference method for the prospective IX. What is the role of repeat testing, if any? Are there asymptom- study was diarrhea defined as ≥3 loose stools for at least 1 day atic patients in whom repeat testing should be allowed, including and ≥2 positive test results . For the initial investigation test of cure? documentation was so poor that clinical criteria could not be used for correlation with test performance . Compared 1. Do not perform repeat testing (within 7 days) during the and specificity of 91.8% and the values for the PCR assay were tomatic patients, except for epidemiological studies (strong 94.4% and 96.8%, respectively . For the second investiga- recommendation, moderate
