Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


and specificity of 91.8% and the values for the PCR assay were tomatic patients, except for epidemiological studies (strong 94.4% and 96.8%, respectively . For the second investiga- recommendation, moderate quality of evidence). tion, patients were interviewed prospectively and among the 350 patients with 365 unique episodes of potential CDI, 39% did not have sufficient diarrhea to warrant testing and were Summary of the Evidence not further analyzed . There were 30 true-positive results The issue of if or when to retest for CDI is inherently linked to in this analysis . The PCR was more sensitive (93.3%) the accuracy of the employed routine testing method. Methods than toxin EIA (73.3%; P < .05) and direct cytotoxin test- with suboptimal sensitivity for C. difficile (eg, stand-alone toxin ing (76.7%). The authors concluded that PCR outperformed EIAs) led to frequent retesting in some settings. Ironically, use of the other diagnostic test methods when applied to patients tests with suboptimal specificity means that multiple repeat test- methods for the 2 study arms, and despite the prospective presentation of suspected CDI (ie, change in character of diarrhea small numbers of positive patients and the fact that it was a performed. This advice is based on the above-mentioned issues single-center study. and also on studies that have shown that the diagnostic yield of Clinical Practice Guidelines for Clostridium difficile Infection • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • e21 repeat testing within a 7-day period (with either toxin A/B EIA the case of fecal lactoferrin), deviation from the manufacturers’ or NAAT) is approximately 2% . Furthermore, use of cutoffs for interpretation, and other confounding factors. Some highly sensitive testing strategies (eg, 2-stage algorithms or stand- of these biomarkers may be helpful in identifying patients at risk alone NAATs) means that the single tests have very high negative for severe disease. Given these limitations, no recommendations predictive value (typically >99%) for CDI. for their routine use can be made. There may be more value of repeat testing in epidemic set- tings where CDI acquisition is more frequent . For DIAGNOSIS (PEDIATRIC CONSIDERATIONS) symptomatic patients with a high clinical suspicion of CDI XI. When should a neonate or infant be tested for C. difficile? but a negative CDI test, particularly those in whom symp- Recommendations toms worsen, repeat testing should be considered; this does not equate to routine retesting, given that the great majority of 1. Because of
