Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


test, particularly those in whom symp- Recommendations toms worsen, repeat testing should be considered; this does not equate to routine retesting, given that the great majority of 1. Because of the high prevalence of asymptomatic carriage patients with suspected CDI do not have the disease. of toxigenic C. difficile in infants, testing for CDI should Given that recurrent CDI occurs commonly, a recurrence never be routinely recommended for neonates or infants of symptoms following successful treatment and diarrhea ces- ≤12 months of age with diarrhea (strong recommendation, sation should be assessed by repeat testing. Testing for recur- moderate quality of evidence). rent CDI should ideally include toxin detection, as persistence of toxigenic C. difficile can occur commonly after infection. and may experience altered bowel habits for prolonged periods. The rate of C. difficile colonization among asymptomatic In one study in which all CDI patients with recurrent diarrhea infants can exceed 40% . Colonization rates were tested for toxin in stool, 35% were negative . Empiric among hospitalized neonates are greater than observed treatment, that is without confirmatory testing of suspected for healthy infants . Although the rate of colonization recurrence, is discouraged, as this may be unnecessary and declines over the first year of life, intermittent detection indeed possibly harmful to microbiome restoration. of C. difficile toxin can persist throughout infancy . lish cure; >60% of patients may remain C. difficile positive even mately 15% of 12-month-old infants . Thus, there is a after successful treatment . substantial risk of a biologic false positive when C. difficile diagnostic testing is performed in neonates and infants. X. Does detection of fecal lactoferrin or another biologic marker Another challenge to defining when an infant with diarrhea improve the diagnosis of CDI over and above the detection of toxi- should be tested for C. difficile is the absence of a validated genic C. difficile? Can such a subset predict a more ill cohort? definition of clinically significant diarrhea in this age group, where passage of frequent loose stools is common. Children Recommendation <12 months of age should only be tested for C. difficile if they have evidence of pseudomembranous colitis or toxic megaco- 1. There are insufficient data to recommend use of biologic lon, or if they have clinically significant diarrhea and other markers as an adjunct to diagnosis (no recommendation). causes of diarrhea have been excluded. Summary of the Evidence XII. When
