Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


lon, or if they have clinically significant diarrhea and other markers as an adjunct to diagnosis (no recommendation). causes of diarrhea have been excluded. Summary of the Evidence XII. When should a toddler or older child be tested for C. difficile? A variety of fecal biomarkers to distinguish inflammatory causes of diarrhea from noninflammatory conditions, such as irri- Recommendations table bowel syndrome, have evolved over the last few decades. Lactoferrin is an iron binding glycoprotein found in neutrophils 1. Clostridium difficile testing should not be routinely per- and its concentration in stool is proportional to the number of formed in children with diarrhea who are 1–2 years neutrophils present . Calprotectin is a calcium binding of age unless other infectious or noninfectious causes protein found in the cytosol of neutrophils . Secretion of have been excluded (weak recommendation, low quality of cytokines in the intestines such as interleukin 8 and interleukin evidence). 1β has also been evaluated [199–201]. While they have utility in 2. In children ≥2 years of age, C. difficile testing is recom- diagnosing IBD, their usefulness in the diagnosis of CDI has not mended for patients with prolonged or worsening diarrhea been established. Most of the published studies include small or and risk factors (eg, underlying inflammatory bowel disease moderate numbers of patients. There are few prospective stud- or immunocompromising conditions) or relevant exposures ies. Interpretation of the literature is further complicated by the (eg, contact with the healthcare system or recent antibiotics) use of different methods of testing (latex agglutination vs EIA in (weak recommendation, moderate quality of evidence). e22 • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • McDonald et al Summary of the Evidence stewardship. However, it is often difficult to determine which The prevalence of asymptomatic colonization with C. difficile is ele- interventions were the most effective in controlling the out- vated in the second year of life, although to a lesser degree than in break as they are implemented simultaneously. also be avoided unless other infectious and noninfectious causes of tial elements in the prevention and control of CDI. Private rooms diarrhea have been excluded. However, by 2–3 years of age, approxi- may facilitate better infection control practices. In a cohort study mately 1%–3% of children are asymptomatic carriers of C. difficile of healthcare-associated CDI acquisition, higher rates of CDI were (a rate similar to that observed in healthy adults). Rarely, some con- demonstrated among
