Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


children are asymptomatic carriers of C. difficile of healthcare-associated CDI acquisition, higher rates of CDI were (a rate similar to that observed in healthy adults). Rarely, some con- demonstrated among patients housed in double rooms than in sin- ditions such as Hirschprung disease may predispose young chil- gle rooms (17% vs 7%; P = .08) and there was a significantly higher dren to CDI, and testing should be considered in this population risk of acquisition after exposure to a roommate with a positive . The role of C. difficile in community-onset diarrhea in culture result . The effect of private rooms on CDI and other otherwise healthy young children remains controversial. Studies of bacterial acquisition rates was studied when an ICU was renovated children hospitalized with acute gastroenteritis have documented to only private rooms with accessible handwashing facilities . that C. difficile can be isolated in >50% of children in whom an There was a significant reduction in CDI rates by 43%, although alternate gastrointestinal pathogen has been identified . other potential confounders, such as antibiotic utilization, were not Additionally, one recently published study found that among 100 examined . Private rooms may not be available and cohorting children <2 years of age who were hospitalized with diarrhea and patients with CDI in a multibed room may be required. The risk had C. difficile toxin detected; all had resolution of diarrhea regard- of recurrence was examined among patients with CDI admitted less of whether C. difficile–specific therapy was administered . to a cohort ward while adjusted for potential risk factors such as Limited data suggest that identification of multiple enteric path- age, comorbidities, and continued antibiotic use . Admission ogens (including C. difficile) may predict more severe symptoms to a C. difficile cohort ward was shown to be an independent pre- . dictor for recurrence . If cohorting is required, dedicated commodes should be provided to the patients to reduce further INFECTION PREVENTION AND CONTROL cross-transmission. Isolation Measures for Patients With CDI In conclusion, patients with CDI should be placed in a private room to decrease transmission to other patients. If there is a XIII. Should private rooms and/or dedicated toilet facilities be limited number of private single rooms, CDI patients with stool used for isolated patients with CDI? incontinence should be prioritized for placement in private rooms. If cohorting is required, it is recommended to cohort Recommendations not cohort
