Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


patients with stool used for isolated patients with CDI? incontinence should be prioritized for placement in private rooms. If cohorting is required, it is recommended to cohort Recommendations not cohort patients with CDI who are discordant for other mul- 1. Accommodate patients with CDI in a private room with a tidrug-resistant organisms such as MRSA or vancomycin-re- dedicated toilet to decrease transmission to other patients. sistant Enterococcus (VRE). If there is a limited number of private single rooms, prior- itize patients with stool incontinence for placement in private rooms (strong recommendation, moderate quality of evidence). XIV. Should gloves and gowns be worn while caring for isolated 2. If cohorting is required, it is recommended to cohort patients CDI patients? Recommendation not cohort patients with CDI who are discordant for other multidrug-resistant organisms such as methicillin-resistant 1. Healthcare personnel must use gloves (strong recommen- Staphylococcus aureus or vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus dation, high quality of evidence) and gowns (strong rec- (strong recommendation, moderate quality of evidence). ommendation, moderate quality of evidence) on entry to a room of a patient with CDI and while caring for patients with CDI. Summary of the Evidence Isolation of patients with CDI or suspected CDI is a prevention measure used by most healthcare facilities regardless of local Summary of the Evidence epidemiology; however, additional measures are often imple- Additional isolation techniques (contact precautions, private mented, particularly when CDI rates are high. An infection rooms, and cohorting of patients with active CDI) have been used control “bundle” strategy has been used to successfully con- for control of outbreaks, with variable success . trol major CDI outbreaks [207–211]. The “bundle” approach Contact precautions include the donning of gowns and gloves involves multifaceted interventions and includes hand hygiene, when caring for patients with CDI. The hands of personnel can isolation measures, environmental disinfection, and antibiotic become contaminated with C. difficile spores, particularly when Clinical Practice Guidelines for Clostridium difficile Infection • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • e23 gloves are not used and when exposed to fecal soiling . 2. Prolong contact precautions until discharge if CDI rates re- Wearing gloves in conjunction with hand hygiene should decrease main high despite implementation of standard infection care personnel. A prospective controlled trial of vinyl glove use for quality of evidence). handling body substances showed a significant decrease in CDI rates, from 7.7 cases per 1000 discharges before institution of glove use to 1.5
