Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


vinyl glove use for quality of evidence). handling body substances showed a significant decrease in CDI rates, from 7.7 cases per 1000 discharges before institution of glove use to 1.5 cases per 1000 discharges after institution of glove use Summary of the Evidence intervention . Care should also be taken to prevent contamin- continued for the duration of the illness . The UK guide- ation of hands when removing gloves. lines recommend continuing contact precautions for at least Clostridium difficile has been detected on nursing uniforms, but 48 hours after diarrhea resolves . Clostridium difficile was there is no evidence that uniforms are a source of transmission to suppressed to undetectable levels in stool samples from most patients . The use of gowns has been recommended because patients by the time diarrhea resolved (mean, 4.2 days) in a pro- care personnel with C. difficile and high quality of evidence for lution of diarrhea, skin and environmental contamination was reducing transmission of other enteric multidrug-resistant organ- high at 60% and 37%, respectively. In addition, stool detection of isms (ie, VRE) . In addition, the fact that gloves reduce C. difficile was 56% at 1–4 weeks posttreatment. Continue con- transmission provides further indirect evidence for gowns. tact precautions for at least 48 hours after diarrhea has ceased. There are no studies that demonstrate further extending contact XV. When should isolation be implemented? precautions results in reductions in CDI incidence. Prolonging contact precautions until discharge remains a special control Recommendation measure if CDI rates remain high despite implementation of standard infection control measures against CDI . 1. Patients with suspected CDI should be placed on preemptive contact precautions pending the C. difficile test results if test XVII. What is the recommended hand hygiene method (assuming results cannot be obtained on the same day (strong recom- glove use) when caring for patients in isolation for CDI? mendation, moderate quality of evidence). Recommendations Summary of the Evidence 1. In routine or endemic settings, perform hand hygiene before It is important to place patients suspected of having CDI on con- and after contact of a patient with CDI and after removing tact precautions before diagnostic laboratory test confirmation gloves with either soap and water or an alcohol-based hand if there will be a lag before test results are available. In a pro- hygiene product (strong recommendation, moderate quality of spective study of 100 patients suspected of
