Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


alcohol-based hand if there will be a lag before test results are available. In a pro- hygiene product (strong recommendation, moderate quality of spective study of 100 patients suspected of CDI, skin contamin- evidence). ation was evaluated as well as the average time for test results to 2. In CDI outbreaks or hyperendemic (sustained high rates) set- become available . The potential for healthcare personnel tings, perform hand hygiene with soap and water preferen- hand contamination was assessed by applying sterile gloved hands tially instead of alcohol-based hand hygiene products before to frequently examined patient skin sites and then imprinting and after caring for a patient with CDI given the increased the gloves onto agar for C. difficile culture. Twenty of these 100 efficacy of spore removal with soap and water (weak recom- patients (20%) were diagnosed with CDI but the test results were mendation, low quality of evidence). not available for 2.07 days. The frequency of C. difficile acquisition 3. Handwashing with soap and water is preferred if there is on gloved hands of healthcare personnel after skin contact with direct contact with feces or an area where fecal contam- these patients was 69%. This study supports that patients with sus- ination is likely (eg, the perineal region) (good practice pected CDI should be placed on preemptive contact precautions recommendation). pending the C. difficile test results if the results cannot be obtained the same day as when the specimen was collected. Summary of the Evidence XVI. How long should isolation be continued? Transmission of C. difficile strains commonly occurs via the hands of healthcare personnel. After caring for patients with Recommendations CDI, the proportion of healthcare personnel with hand contam- ination when gloves are not worn ranges from 14% to 59% [74, 1. Continue contact precautions for at least 48 hours after 87, 216, 224]. Hand hygiene is considered to be one of the cor- diarrhea has resolved (weak recommendation, low quality of nerstones of prevention of transmission of C. difficile, as it is for evidence). e24 • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • McDonald et al most other healthcare-associated infections. Many studies have the rate to 14% (1 of 7 personnel) ; in contrast, another documented low rates of handwashing by healthcare personnel, study that conducted experimental hand seeding with C. diffi- particularly when sinks are not readily accessible [225–228]. The cile spores showed no difference between plain soap
