Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


handwashing by healthcare personnel, study that conducted experimental hand seeding with C. diffi- particularly when sinks are not readily accessible [225–228]. The cile spores showed no difference between plain soap and chlor- introduction of alcohol-based hand antiseptics has been consid- hexidine gluconate in removing C. difficile from hands . ered transformative for increasing hand hygiene compliance. In summary, there is a theoretical possibility for alcohol-based Hand hygiene guidelines recommend the use of alcohol-based hand hygiene products to increase the incidence of CDI because products, unless the hands have come into contact with body of their inability to eliminate C. difficile spores from the hands. and water is recommended. These alcohol-based antiseptics the use of alcohol-based hand hygiene products results in an are popular because of their ease of use at the point of care and increased incidence of CDI. Therefore, before and after providing their effectiveness in rapid killing of most vegetative bacteria care for a patient with CDI, it is recommended to preferentially and many viruses that contaminate hands. However, C. diffi- use soap and water over alcohol-based products alone for hand cile spores are highly resistant to killing by alcohol. Indeed, the hygiene in CDI-hyperendemic (sustained high rates) or outbreak addition of ethanol to stool samples in the laboratory facilitates settings. It is important to confirm compliance with glove use and the culture of C. difficile from these specimens . Therefore, to use alcohol-based products in nonoutbreak or endemic settings. healthcare personnel who do not wear gloves or whose hands become contaminated when doffing gloves may be merely redis- XVIII. Should patient bathing interventions be implemented to tributing spores over the hand surface when using alcohol-based prevent CDI? products. This could potentially increase the risk of transferring Recommendation C. difficile to patients under their care, but numerous studies have not shown an association between the use of alcohol-based 1. Encourage patients to wash hands and shower to reduce the hand hygiene products and an increased incidence of CDI. The burden of spores on the skin (good practice recommendation). impact of using an alcohol-based hand hygiene product on rates of infection with MRSA, VRE, and CDI 3 years before and after Summary of the Evidence its implementation was studied . After implementation, The hands of patients can also become contaminated with the rates of MRSA and VRE infections decreased by 21% and C. difficile at a rate of 32%
