Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


. After implementation, The hands of patients can also become contaminated with the rates of MRSA and VRE infections decreased by 21% and C. difficile at a rate of 32% . Potentially, these patients 41%, respectively, whereas the incidence of CDI was unchanged. can transmit C. difficile to surfaces. In addition, this could be This finding is consistent and has been reproduced in other a factor in CDI recurrence when the spores are ingested from studies [231–234]. A large prospective, ecological interrupted their contaminated hands. Patient bathing can also decrease time series study was conducted from July 2004 to June 2008 skin contamination of C. difficile. Among 37 patients with CDI, in England and Wales to evaluate the impact of the “cleanyour- showering was more effective than bed bathing in decreasing hands” campaign on the rates of hospital procurement of alcohol the rate of positive skin cultures . Encouraging patients to hand rub and soap and to investigate the association between the wash hands and shower could be a useful strategy to reduce the rates of MRSA bacteremia and CDI . Procurement of these burden of spores on the skin. products was used as a proxy for hand hygiene compliance. This study demonstrated that increased soap procurement was signif- icantly associated with a decline in CDI rates whereas increased XIX. Should noncritical devices or equipment be dedicated to or alcohol hand rub procurement was significantly associated with specially cleaned after being used on the isolated patient with CDI? a reduction in MRSA bacteremia rates. Recommendation The use of alcohol-based products has been compared with other methods of hand hygiene in removal of C. difficile spores 1. Use disposable patient equipment when possible and ensure . These studies evaluated the efficacy of different that reusable equipment is thoroughly cleaned and disin- handwashing methods among volunteers for removal of spores fected, preferentially with a sporicidal disinfectant that is of a nontoxigenic strain of C. difficile. Handwashing with soap equipment compatible (strong recommendation, moderate and water, or with an antimicrobial soap and water, was found quality of evidence). to be more effective at removing C. difficile spores than alco- hol-based hand hygiene products. McFarland et al showed that chlorhexidine-containing antiseptic was more effective than Summary of the Evidence plain soap for eliminating C. difficile from the hands of health- Single-use disposable equipment should be used to prevent care personnel . Clostridium difficile was
