Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


than Summary of the Evidence plain soap for eliminating C. difficile from the hands of health- Single-use disposable equipment should be used to prevent care personnel . Clostridium difficile was recovered from CDI transmission. Nondisposable medical equipment should the hands of 88% of personnel (14 of 16) who had washed with be dedicated to the patient’s room, and other equipment plain soap. Washing with 4% chlorhexidine gluconate reduced should be thoroughly cleaned after use in a patient with CDI. Clinical Practice Guidelines for Clostridium difficile Infection • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • e25 Environmental contamination has been associated with the that most patients with CDI do not directly acquire C. difficile from spread of C. difficile via contaminated commodes, blood pres- the environment, the existence of different methods to apply these sure cuffs, and oral and rectal electronic thermometers [74, 241, agents, and the record of inconsistent impact of sporicidal agents 242]. Replacement of electronic thermometers with single-use on reducing CDI incidence in nonoutbreak settings. Several recent disposable thermometers has been associated with significant studies provide insight as to why this may be. Shaughnessy et al decreases in CDI incidence . During simulated routine found admission to an ICU room that previously housed a patient physical examinations on patients with CDI, stethoscopes with CDI to be a risk factor for CDI, but only 11% of patients who were found to acquire and transfer C. difficile spores as often developed CDI had this risk factor . Consistent with this find- as gloved hands . These results support the recommenda- ing, a modeling study found that environmental contamination tion to use disposable patient equipment when possible and to with C. difficile spores likely contributes to only 10% of new CDI ensure that reusable equipment is cleaned and disinfected with cases . In addition, studies using sequencing to characterize a US Environmental Protection Agency–registered, sporicidal isolates found only 2%–7% of new CDI cases could be attributed disinfectant, when possible. It is important to ensure that the to environmental contamination . Studies that have found responsibility and methods for cleaning and disinfection are a reduction in CDI after implementation of a sporicidal agent have clearly defined in standard operating procedures. mostly occurred in outbreak settings, with implementation of the sporicidal agent occurring concurrently with other interventions to XX. What is the role of manual, terminal disinfection using a prevent CDI [251–253]. However, sporicidal agents
