Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


settings, with implementation of the sporicidal agent occurring concurrently with other interventions to XX. What is the role of manual, terminal disinfection using a prevent CDI [251–253]. However, sporicidal agents have not been C. difficile sporicidal agent for patients in isolation for CDI? associated with reductions in CDI in nonoutbreak settings . This is likely because in an endemic setting, in the absence of con- Recommendation secutive patients admitted to a room developing CDI, the degree of environmental contamination is not sufficient to cause transmis- 1. Terminal room cleaning with a sporicidal agent should be sion. In addition, C. difficile spores are physically removed when considered in conjunction with other measures to prevent surfaces are wiped down. Other confounding variables in studies CDI during endemic high rates or outbreaks, or if there is include the following: Several different products have been used evidence of repeated cases of CDI in the same room (weak including various dilutions of sodium hypochlorite, phenol-based recommendation, low quality of evidence). agents, peroxide-based agents, and ultraviolet irradiation; applied by people or by automated systems; and with daily cleaning alone, Summary of the Evidence daily cleaning and terminal cleaning, terminal cleaning alone, and Clostridium difficile produces spores that are resistant to most periodic “deep cleaning.” standard hospital environmental disinfectants and can survive In outbreak settings, terminal disinfection with a sporicidal for months in the hospital environment . Patients who agent in conjunction with other interventions to prevent CDI are colonized with C. difficile shed spores and contaminate has been associated with reductions in CDI. However, terminal their local environment. These spores can serve as a source of disinfection with a sporicidal agent has not been associated with transmission to other patients. Surfaces from which C. difficile consistent reductions in CDI in nonoutbreak settings. Therefore spores have been cultured include toilets, commodes, floors, this remains most appropriate as a supplemental intervention bed rails, call buttons, sinks, and over bed tables . for outbreaks, hyperendemic settings, and evidence of repeated Although some studies demonstrated that epidemic strains cases of CDI in the same room. have increased capacity for sporulation, other studies have not If a sporicidal agent is implemented, compliance with thor- . Environmental contamination is lowest in rooms of cul- oughness of cleaning has been associated with reductions in vi- ture-negative patients (<8% of rooms), intermediate in rooms able C. difficile spores from the environment. of patients with
