Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


of cul- oughness of cleaning has been associated with reductions in vi- ture-negative patients (<8% of rooms), intermediate in rooms able C. difficile spores from the environment. of patients with asymptomatic C. difficile colonization (8%–30% of rooms), and highest in rooms of patients with CDI (9%–50% XXI. Should cleaning adequacy be evaluated? of rooms) . Samore et al found the degree of environmental contamination to correlate with the degree of Recommendation healthcare personnel hand contamination . Hand contam- ination was 0%, 8%, and 26% when environmental contamin- 1. Incorporate measures of cleaning effectiveness to en- ation was 0–25%, 26%–50%, and >50%, respectively. Of note, sure quality of environmental cleaning (good practice this study was conducted prior to the routine use of contact recommendation). precautions for patients with CDI, so regular use of gloves may decrease hand contamination if implemented. Summary of the Evidence activity on the incidence of CDI is complicated by data that indicate over the course of several interventions that included terminal e26 • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • McDonald et al disinfection with bleach, use of fluorescent markers to assess clean- or if there is evidence of repeated cases of CDI in the same ing adequacy, use of an automated ultraviolet radiation device, room (weak recommendation, low quality of evidence). and a dedicated team focused on daily cleaning of rooms housing patients with CDI, that the latter intervention was clearly the most Summary of the Evidence effective at removing viable C. difficile spores from the environ- Daily sporicidal disinfection can be effective at reducing C. diffi- ment . Several methods have been used to assess thorough- cile environmental contamination and has been associated with ness of cleaning, including fluorescent markers and adenosine reductions in CDI in outbreak settings in conjunction with other triphosphate bioluminescence . These measures of clean- interventions to prevent CDI. Mayfield et al reported that the ing adequacy are most effective when feedback is given in real time. introduction of disinfection with a hypochlorite-based solution Barriers to effective cleaning may be due to insufficient time for (5000 ppm available chlorine) was associated with reduced inci- cleaning, inadequate cleaning supplies, inadequate education, and dence of CDI in a bone marrow transplant unit where there was poor communication . Just as, if not more, important than a relatively high incidence of CDI . Notably, the incidence using markers and providing feedback is having environmental of CDI
