Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


poor communication . Just as, if not more, important than a relatively high incidence of CDI . Notably, the incidence using markers and providing feedback is having environmental of CDI increased almost to the baseline level after the reintro- services staff dedicated to thorough cleaning . duction of the original quaternary ammonium compound as the principal cleaning agent. However, the environmental con- XXII. What is the role of automated terminal disinfection using a tamination of C. difficile was not measured in this study, and method that is sporicidal against C. difficile? the results were not reproducible on other units with low CDI Recommendation incidence. Orenstein et al evaluated the use of daily disinfection with bleach wipes containing 0.55% active chlorine on the inci- 1. There are limited data at this time to recommend use of auto- dence of HA-CDI in 2 units with hyperendemic rates . The mated, terminal disinfection using a sporicidal method for intervention successfully decreased the incidence by 85%. Daily CDI prevention (no recommendation). disinfection of high-touch surfaces using a peracetic acid-based disinfectant was also shown to reduce contamination of health- care workers’ hands . In contrast to daily disinfection, Hacek Summary of the Evidence et al conducted a study to examine the impact of only terminal “No-touch” disinfection technologies have garnered much inter- room cleaning with hypochlorite containing solution and no est of late. In general, these products use ultraviolet radiation or change to the daily room cleaning with quaternary ammonium hydrogen peroxide vapor to disinfect the environment, and sev- . With this intervention, there was a statistically significant eral studies have found that these products are effective at reduc- decrease of 48% in the incidence of CDI. ing viable C. difficile spores from patient rooms . There have not been any head-to-head comparisons of daily No single methodology (“no-touch” or otherwise) appears to be vs terminal cleaning using only sporicidal disinfection. superior in regard to reductions in CDI incidence. Automated, terminal disinfection using a sporicidal method has been associ- ated with reductions in viable C. difficile spores from the environ- XXIV. Should asymptomatic carriers of C. difficile be identified and ment. There have been several reports associating use of no-touch isolated if positive? disinfection technologies and reductions in CDI, but all of these Recommendation have at least one significant limitation. These include before–after study designs, inappropriate statistical methods to analyze the 1. There are insufficient
