Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


and reductions in CDI, but all of these Recommendation have at least one significant limitation. These include before–after study designs, inappropriate statistical methods to analyze the 1. There are insufficient data to recommend screening for data, other concurrent interventions, high baseline incidence of asymptomatic carriage and placing asymptomatic carriers on CDI prior to implementation, reduction of CDI back to baseline contact precautions (no recommendation). prior to no-touch technology implementation, and reductions driven by results from single units without apparent impact on Summary of the Evidence other units [256, 258–264]. Data are currently too limited to draw In institutions with higher rates of CDI (7.8–22.5 cases per 1000 any conclusions as to whether/when these devices should be a discharges), the number of asymptomatic carriers has been found component of a CDI prevention program. to be considerably higher than the number with CDI . These asymptomatic carriers admitted to a ward could represent XXIII. What is the role of daily sporicidal disinfection? an important source of healthcare-associated spread of infection Recommendation . Results from mathematical modeling studies have suggested that reductions in CDI incidence by 10%–25% could 1. Daily cleaning with a sporicidal agent should be considered be achieved by identifying and isolating carriers upon hospital in conjunction with other measures to prevent CDI during admission . This novel approach was implemented by Clinical Practice Guidelines for Clostridium difficile Infection • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • e27 endemic rates of CDI . Using a quasi-experimental design fluoroquinolones (n = 7 studies), cephalosporins (n = 10), clin- and time series analysis, the effect of detecting and isolating damycin (n = 5), amoxicillin or amoxicillin-clavulanate (n = 3), asymptomatic carriers was evaluated. Potential confounders other β-lactamase inhibitors, carbapenems, vancomycin, or such as antibiotic and PPI utilization, hand hygiene compliance, aztreonam (n = 1 each). Many studies targeted more than one and intensity of CDI testing were taken into consideration. The antibiotic (n = 6). Second- and third-generation cephalosporins incidence of CDI decreased significantly after this intervention were more likely targets of intervention from studies published compared with the preintervention period and the lower inci- in the 1990s to early 2000s with fluoroquinolones targeted more dence was sustained for at least 1 year after the study terminated. frequently in studies published after 2000. Antibiotics within the This study provides the most compelling evidence to date for the same class (eg, cephalosporins) may not have the
