Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


study terminated. frequently in studies published after 2000. Antibiotics within the This study provides the most compelling evidence to date for the same class (eg, cephalosporins) may not have the same risk for significant effect of isolating carriers. However, several potential CDI and studies usually targeted the antibiotic most likely caus- confounders were not assessed including compliance with isola- ing the current epidemic (generally considered the most widely edge of C. difficile carrier status on the management of a patient. effective at decreasing usage of the targeted antibiotic(s) with Ultimately, these promising results need to be reproduced in mul- percentage reduction that ranged from 50% to >90%, indicative tiple centers prior to being considered for widespread adoption. of a successful process implementation. When reported, a global If these findings are confirmed in various different hospital set- decrease for all antibiotics was shown in 5 of 9 studies. Change of tings, implementation of screening and isolation of asymptom- CDI incidence was recorded as number per 10 000 patient-days atic carriers may be an important strategy to decrease CDI rates. (10 studies), CDI cases per month (3 studies), or CDI cases per 1000 discharges (2 studies). Three studies evaluated the change in XXV. What is the role of antibiotic stewardship in controlling incidence rate of CDI as a result of antibiotic change. Reduction CDI rates? in CDI incidence rates ranged from 33% to >90%, indicative of a successful outcome measure. After the intervention, rates of CDI Recommendations ranged from 0.3–1.2 cases per 10 000 patient days. The number and duration of antibiotics can also influence the 1. Minimize the frequency and duration of high-risk antibiotic development of CDI. Use of multiple antibiotics (mean number therapy and the number of antibiotic agents prescribed, to reduce used, 4.2 vs 1.4 antibiotics) was found to be an important risk CDI risk (strong recommendation, moderate quality of evidence). factor for developing CDI and the incidence of CDI increases 2. Implement an antibiotic stewardship program (good practice with the number of antibiotics prescribed (relative risk, 1.49; 95% recommendation). CI, 1.23–1.81) . A retrospective cohort of 241 patients 3. Antibiotics to be targeted should be based on the local epi- examined the risk of development of CDI and cumulative anti- demiology and the C. difficile strains present. Restriction of biotic exposures. The risk of CDI was associated with increasing fluoroquinolones, clindamycin, and cephalosporins (except cumulative dose, number of
