Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


cumulative anti- demiology and the C. difficile strains present. Restriction of biotic exposures. The risk of CDI was associated with increasing fluoroquinolones, clindamycin, and cephalosporins (except cumulative dose, number of antibiotics, and days of antibiotic for surgical antibiotic prophylaxis) should be considered exposure. For example, compared to patients who received only (strong recommendation, moderate quality of evidence). 1 antibiotic, the adjusted hazard ratios (HRs) for those who received 2, 3 or 4, or ≥5 antibiotics were 2.5 (95% CI, 1.6–4.0), Summary of the Evidence 3.3 (95% CI, 2.2–5.2), and 9.6 (95% CI, 6.1–15.1), respectively Antibiotic restriction may be one of the most useful control . Therefore, it is critical to avoid unnecessary antibiotics and measures for a CDI outbreak. Fifteen quasi-experimental studies to minimize the duration of use to reduce the risk of CDI. published between 1994 and 2013 were identified that evaluated Although many hospitals have implemented an antibiotic the effectiveness of interventions to decrease antibiotic usage and stewardship program (ASP), it is important to sustain the pro- changes in CDI rates [272–286]. Most studies were considered gram with the required resources. The benefits of ASP include moderate (n = 13) or low (n = 2) quality. No randomized con- improved patient outcomes, reduced adverse events (including trolled trials (RCTs) were identified. A summary of the published CDI), improvement in rates of antibiotic susceptibilities, and studies is shown in Table 5. Studies published during 1994–2014 optimization of resource utilization . from hospitals (n = 13) or long-term care facilities (n = 2) were based in North America (n = 7) or the United Kingdom (n = 8). XXVI. What is the role of proton pump inhibitor restriction in All studies but one were associated with an ongoing CDI epi- controlling CDI rates? demic (defined by most studies as a dramatic increase in rate of CDI) of which 7 studies demonstrated a clonal, epidemic Recommendation strain. All studies used either a formulary restriction strategy (n = 11) or prospective audit and feedback (n = 4) as their pre- 1. Although there is an epidemiologic association between dominant stewardship strategy. Targeted antibiotics included PPI use and CDI, and unnecessary PPIs should always be e28 • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • McDonald et al Clinical Practice Guidelines for Clostridium difficile Infection • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • e29 noitcefnI elicfifid muidirtsolC dna snoitnevretnI pihsdrawetS citoibitnA neewteB noitaicossA eht no seidutS latnemirepxe-isauQ .5
