Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


was no difference in the summary OR if the analysis was results to benefit of the probiotic . When these stud- limited to cohort (OR, 1.66; 95% CI, 1.23–2.24) or case-control ies are excluded, a trend toward a reduction in CDI remains, studies (OR, 1.65; 95% CI, 1.38–1.98). Finally, Tleyjeh assessed but it is not as great as when these studies are included. Many 47 total studies (37 case control and 14 cohort) . Incidence limitations remain when the studies with extremely high CDI of CDI increased with exposure to PPIs (OR, 1.69; 95% CI, incidence are excluded, including differences in probiotic for- 1.34–1.97). Two studies assessed the number of cases likely mulations studied, duration of probiotic administration, defi- to occur with the addition of PPI therapy. Number needed to nitions of CDI, duration of study follow-up, and inclusion of harm was higher for the general population (range, 899–3925) patients not typically considered at high risk for CDI. There compared with hospitalized patients not on concomitant anti- is also the potential for organisms in probiotic formulations biotics (range, 202–367), or hospitalized patients receiving to cause infections in hospitalized patients [303–305]. Due to these issues, there are insufficient data to recommend adminis- showing consistently increased risk, heterogeneity of the data, tration of probiotics for primary prevention of CDI. role of unknown confounders, lack of dose–response relation- ships, and other methodologic considerations are considerable limitations to the practical application of these data. TREATMENT A number of further observational studies have investigated XXVIII. What are important ancillary treatment strategies the association between PPI use and CDI after publication of for CDI? these meta-analyses [27, 294–297]. A large, population surveil- Recommendations lance study of 984 patients with community-associated CDI showed that 31% of patients with CDI who did not receive 1. Discontinue therapy with the inciting antibiotic agent(s) as antibiotics did receive a PPI . Three studies investigated soon as possible, as this may influence the risk of CDI recur- the association between PPI usage and recurrent CDI in 1627 rence (strong recommendation, moderate quality of evidence). patients . Two of the 3 studies did not show an 2. Antibiotic therapy for CDI should be started empirically for association between PPI use and recurrent CDI. Finally, a study situations where a substantial delay in laboratory confirm- of 483 patients colonized with C. difficile showed that exposure ation is expected, or for fulminant CDI (described
