Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


CDI. Finally, a study situations where a substantial delay in laboratory confirm- of 483 patients colonized with C. difficile showed that exposure ation is expected, or for fulminant CDI (described in section to PPI increased the risk of developing CDI . Thus, there XXX) (weak recommendation, low quality of evidence). but the true causal relationship is unclear. No RCTs or qua- si-experimental studies have studied the relationship between Summary of the Evidence discontinuing or avoiding PPI use and risk of CDI. Thus, a rec- Discontinuation of inciting antibiotic agent(s) as soon as possible ommendation to globally discontinue PPIs in patients at high should always be considered as their continued use has been shown e30 • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • McDonald et al 306]. Antibiotic therapy should be started empirically if a substan- dazole (76%; P = .02). The second publication was a combined tial delay in laboratory confirmation is expected (eg, >48 hours) or analysis of 2 multinational studies that compared the efficacy of if a patient presents with fulminant CDI. For other patients, anti- tolevamer (n = 563), a toxin-binding polymer, with oral vanco- biotic therapy should be started after diagnosis to limit overuse of mycin 125 mg 4 times daily (n = 266) and oral metronidazole antibiotics and associated toxicities including overgrowth of mul- 250 mg 4 times daily (n = 289) . Tolevamer was inferior to tidrug-resistant pathogens . Historically, administering anti- both metronidazole and vancomycin (P < .001). Metronidazole motility agents to patients with diarrhea without consideration or clinical response rates (72.7%) were also inferior to vancomycin specific therapy for CDI has led to bad outcomes. Addition of an (81.1%) response rates (P = .02). Combined, these RCTs pub- antimotility agent such as loperamide as an adjunct to specific anti- lished since 2000 demonstrated that metronidazole was infe- randomized studies are available . (P = .002). These studies also demonstrated that metronida- zole was inferior to oral vancomycin for resolution of diarrhea XXIX. What are the best treatments of an initial CDI episode to at end of treatment without CDI recurrence 21–30 days after ensure resolution of symptoms and sustained resolution 1 month treatment (P = .002). A recent retrospective study of hospital- after treatment? ized patients with mild-to-moderate CDI found that metroni- Recommendations dazole was inferior to vancomycin for treatment response in this population as well . 1. Either vancomycin or fidaxomicin is recommended
