Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


ized patients with mild-to-moderate CDI found that metroni- Recommendations dazole was inferior to vancomycin for treatment response in this population as well . 1. Either vancomycin or fidaxomicin is recommended over Nearly all randomized trials have compared 10-day reg- metronidazole for an initial episode of CDI. The dosage is imens of CDI treatment agents, and 10 days should be suffi- vancomycin 125 mg orally 4 times per day or fidaxomicin cient to resolve symptoms in most patients. However, some 200 mg twice daily for 10 days (strong recommendation, high patients may have delayed response to treatment, particularly quality of evidence) (Table 1). those treated with metronidazole . The recent randomized 2. In settings where access to vancomycin or fidaxomicin is trial data (Table 6) have confirmed prior observa- limited, we suggest using metronidazole for an initial epi- tional studies that demonstrated decreased effectiveness of oral sode of nonsevere CDI only (weak recommendation, high metronidazole . If patients have improved, but have quality of evidence). The suggested dosage is metronidazole not had symptom resolution by 10 days, extension of the treat- 500 mg orally 3 times per day for 10 days. Avoid repeated or ment duration to 14 days should be considered . Use of prolonged courses due to risk of cumulative and potentially oral metronidazole, however, should be restricted to an initial irreversible neurotoxicity (strong recommendation, moderate episode of nonsevere CDI in cases where other therapies are quality of evidence). (See Treatment section for definition of contraindicated or not available (Tables 4 and 5), and treatment CDI severity.) should be limited to one course due to case reports of neuro- toxicity with prolonged or repeated use . Although cost and utilization analyses were not specifically addressed in Summary of the Evidence these guidelines, compounding of the intravenous formulation For 30 years, metronidazole and oral vancomycin have been the of vancomycin for oral administration has been used as a less main antibiotic agents used in the treatment of CDI. Consensus expensive alternative when barriers to use of the capsular form on optimal treatment of CDI is evolving with the availability of of vancomycin exist (Table 7). new data on established agents and introduction of a new, FDA- The previous IDSA/SHEA guidelines used severity criteria to approved drug, fidaxomicin. Two RCTs conducted in the 1980s guide treatment decisions, and use of vancomycin in particu- and 1990s that compared metronidazole therapy and vanco-
