Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


vancomycin Resolution of diarrhea at end of 1105d (2) 88 (FDX) RR, 1.0 (.98–1.1) .36 ⊕⊕⊕⊕ High Louie (10 days) treatment 86 (VAN) Cornely Resolution of diarrhea at end of 1105d (2) 71 (FDX) RR, 1.2 (1.1–1.4) <.0001 ⊕⊕⊕⊕ High Louie treatment without CDI recur- 57 (VAN) Cornely rence ~1 month after treatment Direct comparisons of FMT and vancomycin Resolution of diarrhea at end of 29 (1) 81 (FMT) RR, 2.6 (1.1, 6.2) .01 ⊕⊕⊕⊖ Moderate treatment without CDI recur- 31 (VANe) van Nood rence 56 days after treatment Abbreviations: CDI, Clostridium difficile infection; CI, confidence interval; FDX, fidaxomicin; FMT, fecal microbiota transplantation; GRADE, Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development and Evaluation; MTR, metronidazole; RCT, randomized controlled trial; RR, relative risk; VAN, vancomycin. aAll relative risks calculated using vancomycin as the comparator agent. An RR <1.0 represents results favoring the use of vancomycin; an RR >1.0 represents results favoring the comparator. bFor GRADE interpretation, see Figure 1. cFull analysis set. Population in the 2 phase 3 tolevamer trials published in the same journal article . dModified intention-to-treat population (combined analysis of both phase 3 fidaxomicin trials ). eA second control group of 13 patients who received a bowel lavage in addition to vancomycin was included in this study. The RR for this comparison (FMT vs VAN + lavage) was 3.5 (95% CI, 1.1–9.8). (>38.5°C), WBC count >15 × 109/L, and creatinine >1.5 mg/ diagnosis of severe CDI, but have changed the creatinine value dL correlated with treatment failure and that timing of meas- to an absolute value as opposed to the previous comparison to urement with respect to the positive stool C. difficile assay baseline values, which are not always available (Table 1). influenced the values of the variables . Miller et al Further validation of these criteria is still needed, and these cri- measured 6 different factors individually and in various com- teria do not perform well for patients with underlying hemato- binations to look for correlation with cure following treatment. logic malignancies or renal insufficiency . WBC count was the only single factor that correlated with cure Two RCTs compared oral vancomycin to oral fidaxomicin for and a score based on a combination of age, treatment with the treatment of CDI . Primary and secondary end- non-CDI systemic antibiotics, leukocyte (WBC) count, albu- points were resolution of diarrhea at the end of the 10-day treat- min, and serum creatinine
