Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


have acquisition and ive postvancomycin treatment regimen in patients with overgrowth of vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus and Candida recurrent CDI (see section XXXI). One potential concern species . However, subpopulations of VRE with elevated for use of rifaximin is the potential for resistance. Isolates fidaxomicin minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) were with high MICs (>256 µg/mL) and development of high common, suggesting that this effect may change over time MICs during treatment with rifaximin are well docu- if enterococci resistance to fidaxomicin becomes common. mented . Clinical Practice Guidelines for Clostridium difficile Infection • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • e33 XXX. What are the best treatments of fulminant CDI? with intravenous immunoglobulins (150–400 mg/kg) has been used, but no controlled trials have been performed [332–337]. Recommendations Surgical intervention can be life-saving for selected patients . A rising WBC count (≥25 000) or a rising lactate level 1. For fulminant CDI*, vancomycin administered orally is the (≥5 mmol/L) is associated with high mortality and may be regimen of choice (strong recommendation, moderate qual- helpful in identifying patients whose best hope for survival lies ity of evidence). If ileus is present, vancomycin can also be with early surgery . Subtotal colectomy is the established administered per rectum (weak recommendation, low quality surgical procedure for patients with megacolon, colonic perfo- of evidence). The vancomycin dosage is 500 mg orally 4 times ration, an acute abdomen, or for patients with septic shock and per day and 500 mg in approximately 100 mL normal saline associated organ failure (renal, respiratory, hepatic, or hemod- per rectum every 6 hours as a retention enema. Intravenously ynamic compromise) . More recently, an alternative administered metronidazole should be administered together procedure has been proposed (loop ileostomy with antegrade with oral or rectal vancomycin, particularly if ileus is present vancomycin lavage) as a colon-preserving, less invasive (usually (strong recommendation, moderate quality of evidence). The laparoscopic), and less morbid approach that warrants further metronidazole dosage is 500 mg intravenously every 8 hours.* investigation as it may lead to improved outcomes as well as *Fulminant CDI, previously referred to as severe, complicated colon salvage . CDI, may be characterized by hypotension or shock, ileus, or megacolon. XXXI. What are the best treatments for recurrent CDI? 2. If surgical management is necessary for severely ill patients, per- Recommendations form subtotal colectomy with preservation of the rectum (strong recommendation, moderate quality of evidence). Diverting loop 1. Treat
