Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


2. If surgical management is necessary for severely ill patients, per- Recommendations form subtotal colectomy with preservation of the rectum (strong recommendation, moderate quality of evidence). Diverting loop 1. Treat a first recurrence of CDI with oral vancomycin as a ileostomy with colonic lavage followed by antegrade vancomy- tapered and pulsed regimen rather than a second standard cin flushes is an alternative approach that may lead to improved 10-day course of vancomycin (weak recommendation, low outcomes (weak recommendation, low quality of evidence). quality of evidence), or 2. Treat a first recurrence of CDI with a 10-day course of fidax- omicin rather than a standard 10-day course of vancomycin Summary of the Evidence (weak recommendation, moderate quality of evidence), or Vancomycin, administered orally at high dosage, has been 3. Treat a first recurrence of CDI with a standard 10-day course the historical recommendation for fulminant CDI and there of vancomycin rather than a second course of metronidazole remains a lack of high-quality evidence to support this recom- if metronidazole was used for the primary episode (weak rec- mendation. If an ileus is present, then vancomycin can also be ommendation, low quality of evidence). administered per rectum even though it is unclear whether a 4. Antibiotic treatment options for patients with >1 recurrence sufficient quantity of the drug reaches beyond the left colon of CDI include oral vancomycin therapy using a tapered and . Despite the lack of data, it seems prudent to pulsed regimen (weak recommendation, low quality of evi- administer vancomycin by oral and/or rectal routes at higher dence), a standard course of oral vancomycin followed by dosages for patients with fulminant CDI (500 mg 6 hourly by rifaximin (weak recommendation, low quality of evidence), or mouth and 500 mg in approximately 100 mL of normal saline fidaxomicin (weak recommendation, low quality of evidence). by retention enema). Use of high doses of vancomycin is safe, 5. Fecal microbiota transplantation is recommended for but serum concentrations have been noted with high doses, patients with multiple recurrences of CDI who have failed prolonged exposure, renal failure, and disrupted intestinal appropriate antibiotic treatments (strong recommendation, epithelial integrity . Hence, it may be appropriate to moderate quality of evidence). monitor trough serum concentration in such circumstances 6. There are insufficient data at this time to recommend extend- to rule out drug accumulation. ing the length of anti–C. difficile treatment beyond the rec- In fulminant
