Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


such circumstances 6. There are insufficient data at this time to recommend extend- to rule out drug accumulation. ing the length of anti–C. difficile treatment beyond the rec- In fulminant CDI, intravenously administered metronidazole ommended treatment course or restarting an anti–C. difficile (500 mg every 8 hours) should be used in addition to vancomycin agent empirically for patients who require continued anti- . This is especially important if ileus is present as this may biotic therapy directed against the underlying infection or impair the delivery of orally administered vancomycin to the who require retreatment with antibiotics shortly after com- colon, but intravenously administered metronidazole is likely pletion of CDI treatment, respectively (no recommendation). to achieve therapeutic concentrations in an inflamed colon. In patients not responding to vancomycin and metronidazole, Summary of the Evidence intravenously administered tigecycline (loading dose of 100 mg The frequency of further episodes of CDI necessitating retreat- followed by 50 mg 2 times per day) or passive immunotherapy ment remains a major concern. Approximately 25% of patients e34 • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • McDonald et al treated for CDI with vancomycin can be expected to experience CDI recurrence [352–354]. However, as yet, none has demon- at least 1 additional episode . Recurrent CDI results strated significant and reproducible efficacy in controlled clin- practice, it is impossible to distinguish these 2 mechanisms Some patients need to receive other antibiotics during or the former (relapse) or the latter (new infection). Recurrence higher risk of a recurrence and its attendant complications [81, rates are significantly lower following treatment of an initial 306, 343]. Many clinicians prolong the duration of treatment CDI episode with fidaxomicin as compared to vancomycin of CDI in such cases, until after the other antibiotic regimens . Risk factors for CDI recurrence are the admin- have been stopped. Lower doses may be sufficient to prevent istration of other antibiotics during or after initial treatment of recurrence (eg, vancomycin 125 mg once daily). Whether this CDI, a defective humoral immune response against C. difficile approach reduces the risk of CDI recurrence is unknown, but toxins, advancing age, and increasingly severe underlying dis- one retrospective study suggested no benefit for extension of ease . Continued use of PPIs has also been associated CDI treatment beyond 10–14 days . A similar concern is with an increased risk of recurrence . encountered among patients who have successfully completed A first
