Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


has also been associated CDI treatment beyond 10–14 days . A similar concern is with an increased risk of recurrence . encountered among patients who have successfully completed A first recurrence of CDI may be treated with oral vanco- treatment for CDI but subsequently are administered sys- mycin (particularly if metronidazole was used for the first epi- temic antibiotics. Two retrospective cohort studies have been sode), vancomycin followed by a tapered and pulsed regimen, published looking at the risk of recurrent CDI in patients who or fidaxomicin. In a randomized, stratified substudy of patients received subsequent antibiotic exposure between those who with a first CDI recurrence, a subsequent, second recurrence were empirically treated with vancomycin during that exposure was less common following therapy with fidaxomicin com- and those who were not . One of these studies looked pared to a standard 10-day course of vancomycin (19.7% vs at patients who received antibiotics within 90 days of the prior 35.5%; P = .045) . Uncontrolled, postapproval experience episode and one looked at patients who were rehospitalized with fidaxomicin suggests less efficacious responses in terms (1–22 months later) and given systemic antibiotics. The vanco- of cure and subsequent recurrence after treatment of patients mycin dose and regimen varied considerably, but both studies with recurrent CDI, particularly ≥2 recurrences . Oral showed a decreased risk of subsequent CDI for some patients vancomycin should be used as a tapered and pulsed-dose reg- treated empirically with vancomycin. One study showed a imen if a standard 10-day course of vancomycin was used for decreased risk for those whose previous CDI episode was itself the initial episode. Various regimens have been used and are a recurrent CDI episode, but not for those following a primary similar to this one: After the usual dosage of 125 mg 4 times CDI episode . The obvious bias in these studies was the per day for 10–14 days, vancomycin is administered at 125 mg unknown factors that dictated prescribing oral vancomycin 2 times per day for a week, 125 mg once per day for a week, and prophylaxis. In addition, the long-term benefit is unknown. To then 125 mg every 2 or 3 days for 2–8 weeks, in the hope that date there are no prospective, randomized studies of secondary C. difficile vegetative forms will be kept in check while allow- prophylaxis of CDI to guide recommendations, but if the deci-
