Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


date there are no prospective, randomized studies of secondary C. difficile vegetative forms will be kept in check while allow- prophylaxis of CDI to guide recommendations, but if the deci- recommended for treatment of recurrent CDI as initial and sus- administer low doses of vancomycin or fidaxomicin (eg, 125 mg tained response rates are lower than for vancomycin (Table 7). or 200 mg, respectively, once daily) while systemic antibiotics Furthermore, metronidazole should not be used for long-term are administered. Factors that might influence the decision to therapy because of the potential for cumulative neurotoxicity administer secondary prophylaxis include length of time from . previous CDI treatment, and patient characteristics (number Second or subsequent CDI recurrences may be treated with of previous CDI episodes, severity of previous episodes, and oral vancomycin as a tapered and pulsed-dose regimen as underlying frailty of the patient). described above . In a small RCT, patients received rifax- Patients who have failed to resolve recurrent CDI despite imin 400 mg 3 times daily or placebo for 20 days immediately repeated antibiotic treatment attempts present a particularly after completing standard therapy for CDI . CDI recur- difficult challenge. Clinical investigations of patients with rences occurred in 5 of 33 (15%) patients given rifaximin and recurrent CDI have shown significant disruption of the intes- in 11 of 35 (31%) patients given placebo (P = .11). Experience tinal microbiome diversity as well as relative bacterial popula- using fidaxomicin to treat multiply recurrent CDI is limited. tion numbers. Instillation of processed stool collected from a There is little evidence that adding cholestyramine, colestipol, healthy donor into the intestinal tract of patients with recurrent or rifampin to the treatment regimen decreases the risk of a fur- CDI has been used with a high degree of success to correct the ther recurrence . intestinal dysbiosis brought about by repeated courses of anti- Several probiotics including Saccharomyces boulardii and biotic administration [358–361]. Anecdotal treatment success Lactobacillus species have shown promise for the prevention of rates of fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) for recurrent Clinical Practice Guidelines for Clostridium difficile Infection • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • e35 CDI have been high regardless of route of instillation of feces, nasogastric tube insertion, colon perforation during colonos- and have ranged between 77% and 94% with administration via copy) has been occasionally reported and may occur with the the proximal small bowel ; the highest success rates
