Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


colonos- and have ranged between 77% and 94% with administration via copy) has been occasionally reported and may occur with the the proximal small bowel ; the highest success rates same frequency as when these procedures are performed for (80%–100%) have been associated with instillation of feces gastrointestinal illnesses other than recurrent CDI. Potential via the colon [360, 363–366]. By March 2016, >1945 patients unintended long-term infectious and noninfectious conse- (reported as single case reports and larger case series) with quences of FMT are still unknown in the absence of large-scale recurrent CDI had been described in the peer-reviewed litera- controlled trials with sufficient follow-up. ture (J. S. Bakken, unpublished data). Potential candidates for FMT include patients with multiple Despite the large number of anecdotal reports that have recurrences of CDI who have failed to resolve their infection consistently demonstrated high efficacy of FMT, the first pro- despite treatment attempts with antibiotic agents targeting CDI. spective randomized clinical trial that compared the outcome Although there are no data to indicate how many antibiotic of standard antibiotic therapy to FMT was published in 2013 treatments should be attempted before referral for FMT, the . In this unblinded trial, van Nood and collaborators ran- opinion of the panel is that appropriate antibiotic treatments for domly assigned 43 patients with ≥2 recurrent episodes of CDI at least 2 recurrences (ie, 3 CDI episodes) should be tried. There to receive either a standard 14-day course of oral vancomycin are limited data on FMT administration in patients with severe, (13 patients), vancomycin with bowel lavage (13 patients), or refractory CDI . FMT has also been used for treat- a 4-day course of vancomycin followed by bowel lavage and ing recurrent CDI in patients with underlying IBD, although subsequent FMT infusion administered through a nasoduo- it appears to be less effective for this population compared to denal tube (17 patients) . The primary endpoint was ini- those without IBD , and flares of underlying disease activ- tial response without relapse for 10 weeks after completion of ity have been reported following FMT for recurrent CDI in therapy. The investigation was terminated early after interim patients with IBD [379–381]. Once a patient has been found analysis, due to the marked difference in treatment outcomes. to be a candidate for FMT, an appropriate stool donor must be Thirteen of the 16 (81%) patients in the FMT arm had
