Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


to the marked difference in treatment outcomes. to be a candidate for FMT, an appropriate stool donor must be Thirteen of the 16 (81%) patients in the FMT arm had a sus- identified. Occult contagious pathogens may be present in the tained resolution of diarrhea after the first fecal infusion; only stool of a candidate FMT donor, which could potentially place 7 of the 26 (27%) patients who were treated with vancomycin the recipient at risk for a transmissible infection. Careful evalu- resolved their CDI (P < .001). Four additional randomized trials ation and selection of all candidate stool donors is therefore of FMT have been published through 2016 [368–371]. One of important to minimize the risk for an iatrogenic infection and these trials compared FMT to antibiotic treatment and to maximize the likelihood for a successful treatment outcome. the other 3 compared various refinements of the FMT product The designated stool donor should undergo screening of blood , delivery of the product , or FMT to autologous FMT and feces prior to the stool donation in accordance with recom- . In general, the reported efficacy of FMT is lower in most mendations recently published . Detection of any trans- randomized trials than in nonrandomized reports. The largest missible microbial pathogen should disqualify the individual of these randomized trials reported an efficacy of approximately from donating stool. Individuals who have been treated with 50% for one FMT delivered by enema, which increased to 75% an antibiotic agent during the preceding 3 months of donating for 2 FMT administrations and approximately 90% for >2 FMT stool, and those with preexisting chronic medical conditions, administrations. Patient selection, proximity to recurrent CDI such as IBD, malignant diseases, chronic infections, active episode, and antibiotic treatment prior to FMT all likely influ- autoimmune illnesses, or individuals who are receiving active ence response to FMT. treatment with immunosuppressive medication should also be FMT has been well accepted by patients and represents a disqualified from donating stool . viable alternative treatment approach to an increasing clinical Most investigators have recommended that patients who problem. Judged by the published literature, FMT appears to be are not receiving active antibiotic treatment prior to planned safe in the short term and mild to moderate FMT should be placed on a brief “induction course” of oral posttreatment adverse events are for the most part self-limited vancomycin for 3–4 days prior to
