Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


and mild to moderate FMT should be placed on a brief “induction course” of oral posttreatment adverse events are for the most part self-limited vancomycin for 3–4 days prior to FMT administration to . A recent retrospective multicenter case series report of reduce the burden of vegetative C. difficile. The patient and the 80 immunocompromised patients concluded that FMT was safe treating physician must also decide the route of FMT instil- and well tolerated, although they included a heterogenous group lation, taking into consideration individual preferences and of conditions . Reported infectious complications directly recognizing that the rate of success varies with the route of attributed to the instillation of donor feces has so far been lim- instillation . ited to 2 patients who developed norovirus gastroenteritis after FMT for treatment of CDI despite use of asymptomatic donors TREATMENT (PEDIATRIC CONSIDERATIONS) and lack of sick contacts . Physical complications from the XXXII. What is the best treatment of an initial episode or first re- FMT instillation procedure (upper gastrointestinal bleed after currence of nonsevere CDI in children? e36 • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • McDonald et al Recommendation XXXIII. What is the best treatment of an initial episode of severe CDI in children? 1. Either metronidazole or vancomycin is recommended for the Recommendation treatment of children with an initial episode or first recurrence of nonsevere CDI (see Pediatric treatment section for dosing) 1. For children with an initial episode of severe CDI, oral van- (weak recommendation, low quality of evidence) (Table 2). comycin is recommended over metronidazole (strong recom- mendation, moderate quality of evidence). Summary of the Evidence Robust data assessing the optimal approach for treating an Summary of the Evidence initial episode of CDI in children are limited, and evidence There are no well-designed trials that examine the compara- of the comparative effectiveness of metronidazole and van- tive effectiveness of metronidazole and oral vancomycin for comycin for treating pediatric CDI is lacking. There are no the initial treatment of children with severe CDI. As noted RCTs comparing the use of these agents in children. A few above, observational studies of hospitalized children with recent studies suggest that failure rates with metronidazole CDI suggest that the rate of treatment failure may be greater may be higher than traditionally reported, but these data among children with severe disease as compared to those with have limitations. Kim et al prospectively studied 82
