Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


may be greater may be higher than traditionally reported, but these data among children with severe disease as compared to those with have limitations. Kim et al prospectively studied 82 nonsevere disease . Although pediatric studies have not children with CDI, of whom 56 received metronidazole; 6 demonstrated conclusively that the therapeutic agent used to (11%) of them had treatment failure, but half of these were treat a child with severe CDI is associated with different out- children with severe disease. Khanna et al performed comes, evidence from adult RCTs has demonstrated improved a population-based cohort study of CDI epidemiology in outcomes in adult patients with severe CDI who are treated children 0–18 years of age. Among 69 patients with com- with oral vancomycin compared with those treated with munity-acquired CDI, treatment failure rate was 18% for oral metronidazole. Therefore, clinicians should use vanco- metronidazole and 0% for vancomycin, but these rates were mycin in children who present with severe or fulminant CDI not statistically different. In a survey of pediatric infec- (Table 2). Because fidaxomicin was not approved for use in tious diseases physicians by Sammons et al , 100% patients <18 years of age, at the time of this writing, it is not of respondents reported using metronidazole for initial recommended for routine use in the treatment of children therapy in healthy children with mild CDI, but the pro- with severe CDI, although a recent survey of pediatric in- portion fell to 41%–79% for treating mild CDI in children fectious disease physicians revealed that it had been used or with underlying comorbidities. Schwenk et al used recommended by 12% of respondents . Of note, neither a national administrative database to study vancomycin vancomycin nor fidaxomicin is significantly absorbed when use for pediatric CDI and found that vancomycin use for orally administered; thus, there are few systemic adverse initial therapy increased significantly between 2006 and events associated with these drugs. 2011, with substantial variability between children’s hospi- tals. Complications and mortality from CDI in children are XXXIV. What are the best treatments for a second or greater epi- uncommon, regardless of severity of disease or choice of sode of recurrent CDI in children? antibiotic for treatment . Recommendation Treatment recommendations for pediatric CDI should bal- ance the accumulated experience of good outcomes with met- 1. For children with a second or greater episode of recurrent ronidazole for initial mild
