Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


recommendations for pediatric CDI should bal- ance the accumulated experience of good outcomes with met- 1. For children with a second or greater episode of recurrent ronidazole for initial mild disease and emerging data in both CDI, oral vancomycin is recommended over metronidazole adults and children, suggesting a possible difference in favor of (weak recommendation, low quality of evidence). vancomycin. At the current time there are insufficient pediatric data to recommend vancomycin over metronidazole as pre- ferred treatment, so either metronidazole or vancomycin should Summary of the Evidence be used for an initial episode or first recurrence of nonsevere There are no well-designed trials that examine the effectiveness CDI in children (Table 2). However, because oral vancomycin of various treatment regimens in children with multiply recur- is not absorbed, the risk of side effects is lower than for met- rent CDI. In addition, pediatric studies have not demonstrated ronidazole. Nonetheless, studies have demonstrated that van- conclusively that there is a difference in the risk of recurrence comycin exposure promotes carriage of vancomycin-resistant related to the therapeutic agent used to treat an initial epi- enterococci in the intestinal flora of treated patients, although sode . Thus, recommendations about the therapeu- available data suggest that metronidazole use is also associated tic approach to children with multiply recurrent CDI must be with this outcome . guided by evidence drawn from the studies performed in adults Clinical Practice Guidelines for Clostridium difficile Infection • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • e37 and an assessment of the theoretical benefits and harms asso- who reported using alternative therapies for CDI had recom- ciated with various treatment regimens. As described above, mended FMT, most commonly for the treatment of a third or evidence from adult studies supports the use of an extended later recurrence . Finally, the potential benefits of FMT course of oral vancomycin (tapered or pulse regimen), oral van- must be balanced against theoretical risks. comycin followed by rifaximin, or fidaxomicin in patients with As described above, instillation of donor stool typically multiply recurrent CDI. For children with a second recurrence requires use of nasogastric tube or colonoscopy, which may of CDI who have been treated exclusively with metronidazole, a carry procedure-related risks. In addition, use of donor stool conventional course of oral vancomycin should be considered. introduces the potential for transmission of resistant organisms For children with multiple recurrences of CDI despite conven- and blood-borne
