Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


of donor stool conventional course of oral vancomycin should be considered. introduces the potential for transmission of resistant organisms For children with multiple recurrences of CDI despite conven- and blood-borne pathogens, necessitating donor-screening tional courses of metronidazole and oral vancomycin, an alter- protocols. There is a general concern that FMT might ulti- nate therapeutic regimen should be used (Table 2). mately lead to unexpected adverse events such as metabolic or Vancomycin, fidaxomicin, and rifaximin are not absorbed immune-based disorders . when orally administered; thus, there are few systemic adverse events associated with these drugs. Rifaximin has been approved RESEARCH GAPS by the FDA for the treatment of traveler’s diarrhea in children The initial step in developing a rational clinical research agenda ≥12 years of age but has been used in younger children with is the identification of gaps in information. The process of refractory IBDs and small intestinal bacterial overgrowth guideline development, as practiced by SHEA and the IDSA, with few reports of adverse events. As noted above, fidax- serves as a natural means by which such gaps are identified. omicin was not approved for use in patients <18 years of age at the Clinical questions identified by the IDSA/SHEA Expert Panel time of this writing. In contrast to vancomycin and fidaxomicin, and by members of the IDSA Research Committee that could repeated or prolonged exposure to metronidazole has been asso- inform a C. difficile research agenda are listed below. ciated with neuropathies. Additional concerns have been voiced about the risk of resistance associated with the use of rifaximin. Epidemiology What is the epidemiology of CDI? What is the incubation period of C. difficile? What is the infectious dose of C. difficile? How XXXV. Is there a role for fecal microbiota transplantation in chil- dren with recurrent CDI? should hospital rates be risk-adjusted for appropriate interhos- pital comparisons? Does administration of PPIs increase the Recommendation risk of CDI and, if so, what is the magnitude of risk? What are the sources for C. difficile transmission in the community? Is 1. Consider fecal microbiota transplantation for pediatric exposure to antibiotics (or equivalent agents, such as chemo- patients with multiple recurrences of CDI following standard therapy drugs) required for susceptibility to CDI? If not, what antibiotic treatments (weak recommendation, very low quality are the antibiotic surrogates or other factors that place patients of evidence). at risk for CDI, particularly in the community?
