Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


If not, what antibiotic treatments (weak recommendation, very low quality are the antibiotic surrogates or other factors that place patients of evidence). at risk for CDI, particularly in the community? What is the role of asymptomatic carriers in transmission of C. difficile in the Summary of the Evidence healthcare setting? What are the validated clinical predictors of Management of multiply recurrent CDI can be challenging. As severe CDI? Can clinical predictors of severe CDI in children be detailed above, FMT restores gut microbiota diversity through identified? At what age and to what degree is C. difficile patho- instillation of donor stool into the gastrointestinal tract of genic among infants and young children? How should clinically patients with CDI. Good clinical response has been shown in significant diarrhea be defined in infants and children who are adults with refractory or recurrent CDI with few reports of ad- not continent of stool? How should pediatric healthcare facil- verse events. At present, robust data examining the effectiveness ities conduct surveillance and report rates of C. difficile infec- of FMT for pediatric patients are lacking. Thus, recommenda- tion? Should data from infants <12 months of age be included tions regarding the therapeutic approach to multiply recurrent in laboratory-based surveillance and reporting? CDI in children should be guided primarily by evidence from adult studies. Limited evidence from case reports and case Diagnostics series in pediatric patients suggests that FMT via nasogastric What is the role and optimal sequence for multistep testing tube or colonoscopy can be effective in children with multiply for CDI? Is GDH detection in stool sufficiently sensitive as a recurrent CDI who have failed standard antibiotic therapy, with screening test for C. difficile colitis? How well does GDH cor- follow-up periods up to 16 months . In most reported relate with culture for toxigenic C. difficile? Which of the “gold cases, fecal sample donation was from the child’s mother or standard” assays (culture for toxigenic C. difficile or cell culture father . Despite limited pediatric data, a survey of pediatric cytotoxicity assay) is optimal as a reference test for diagnosis of infectious diseases physicians revealed that 18% of respondents CDI? Does screening by GDH test, coupled with confirmatory e38 • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • McDonald et al testing for toxigenic C. difficile by cell culture cytotoxicity assay distinguished from an IBD flare in patient with ulcerative colitis or NAAT for toxin
