Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


(1 April) • McDonald et al testing for toxigenic C. difficile by cell culture cytotoxicity assay distinguished from an IBD flare in patient with ulcerative colitis or NAAT for toxin genes, better identify patients with CDI than or Crohn’s disease? What role does C. difficile play in IBD flares? using NAAT alone? What should be done with patients who are How is CDI best managed in this population? Can postinfec- positive by NAAT but toxin negative? What is the best diagnos- tious irritable bowel syndrome be distinguished from recurrent tic method for hospital laboratories that do not have molecular CDI? technology available? What is the role for NAAT in the diagnosis of CDI? Is molec- Prevention ular testing for toxin genes too sensitive for clinical utility? What preventive measures can be taken to reduce the inci- Are there patient populations in whom a NAAT is method of dence of CDI? What is the best method to identify patients choice? at risk of primary or recurrent CDI? Can administration of Additional diagnostic research questions: Should infants probiotics or biotherapeutic agents effectively prevent CDI? and young children with diarrhea be tested for C. difficile? What are the most effective antibiotic stewardship strate- Which children in the ambulatory setting who present with gies to prevent CDI? What are the most effective transmis- diarrhea should be tested for C. difficile? Can new diagnostic sion prevention strategies (ie, environmental management tests be developed that will accurately distinguish colonization and isolation) to prevent CDI in inpatient settings? What from infection? When should multiplex PCR test platforms for is the incremental impact of each? Is there a core “bundle” enteric pathogens be used for diagnosis of CDI? Should these infection control strategy that can be used by a wide-range platforms exclude C. difficile or should the C. difficile result be of healthcare facilities? Can vaccination effectively prevent hidden given the availability of specific C. difficile diagnostics CDI, and what would be the composition of the vaccine and and the consideration of the different indications for testing (eg, the route of administration? What are systemic or mucosal rhea)? Should testing for C. difficile be performed on patients is the role of anti-CDI agents in secondary CDI prevention with ileostomy/colostomy? of CDI (patients successfully treated for CDI but who receive subsequent oral, intravenous, or intramuscular antibiotics)? Treatment What drugs, dosages, and duration? What patient character- What is the best
