Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


ileostomy/colostomy? of CDI (patients successfully treated for CDI but who receive subsequent oral, intravenous, or intramuscular antibiotics)? Treatment What drugs, dosages, and duration? What patient character- What is the best treatment for recurrent CDI? What is the best istics should be considered for initiating secondary proph- method to prevent recurrent CDI? What is the best way to ylaxis (eg, age, number of previous CDI episodes, and time restore colonization resistance of intestinal microbiota? When since previous CDI episode)? What is the effect of screening should fecal transplant be considered? Should specific com- patients on admission for C. difficile carriage and isolating mensal bacteria be administered in place of minimally screened positive C. difficile carriers on the incidence of hospital-ac- fecal specimens from donors? What is the role of adjunct- quired CDI? ive therapy as new agents become available (eg, monoclonal antibodies [bezlotoxumab, a monoclonal antibody that binds Basic Research agents). What is the role for new anti–C. difficile antibiotics testinal immune system? What are the triggers for sporulation that are being developed? Does the in vitro spectrum of activ- and germination of C. difficile in the human gastrointestinal ity of new CDI treatment agents against gut commensal bac- tract? Where does spore germination occur in the human gas- teria predict clinical outcome with respect to CDI recurrence trointestinal tract? What is the role of sporulation in recurrent in clinical trials with these agents? Assuming an effective vac- C. difficile disease? What is the role of bile acid metabolism and cine is developed, what population should be targeted? What is the potential for using bile acid metabolites for CDI treatment the best approach to treatment of fulminant CDI? What are the intervention? criteria for colectomy in a patient with fulminant CDI? Should What is the basic relationship of C. difficile to the human gut diverting loop ileostomy be the preferred procedure over colec- mucosa and immune system? Where in the gut do C. difficile tomy in this setting? What is the role of treatment with vanco- organisms reside? What enables C. difficile to colonize patients? mycin or other antibiotics alone or in combination, or FMT in What are the critical constituents of the microbiota that pro- fulminant infection? What is the role of treatment with passive vide colonization resistance to C. difficile? Is there a C. difficile antibodies (immunoglobulin or monoclonal antibody therapy) biofilm in the gastrointestinal tract? Is mucosal adherence
