Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: cdi, patients, difficile, evidence, recommendation, treatment, vancomycin, risk, quality, use, studies, quality evidence, low, infection, days


role of treatment with passive vide colonization resistance to C. difficile? Is there a C. difficile antibodies (immunoglobulin or monoclonal antibody therapy) biofilm in the gastrointestinal tract? Is mucosal adherence nec- in fulminant infection? essary for development of CDI? Is there a nutritional niche that Additional treatment research questions: When should van- allows C. difficile to establish colonization? What is the role of comycin be used to treat children with CDI? Is fidaxomicin mucosal and systemic immunity in preventing clinical CDI? safe and effective in children? How is a CDI episode best What causes C. difficile colonization to end? Do C. difficile Clinical Practice Guidelines for Clostridium difficile Infection • CID 2018:66 (1 April) • e39 toxins enter the circulation during infection? What are the fac- J. S. has received grants from CDC Epicenters. For activities outside of the submitted work, M. W. has received research grants, consultancy/lecture tors in infants and young children that influence susceptibility fees from Actelion, Cubist, Astellas, Optimer, Sanofi Pasteur, Summit, Seres, to C. difficile infection vs asymptomatic colonization? bioMérieux, Da Volterra, Qiagen, and Pfizer; served as a consultant for Merck, Valneva, Alere, AstraZeneca, Durata, Nabriva, Pfizer, Roche, The Medicines Company, Abott, Basilea, and the European Tissue Symposium; Notes and received research grants from Cerexa, Abbott, and the European Tissue Acknowledgments. The expert panel expresses its gratitude for thought- Symposium. All other authors report no potential conflicts of interest. All authors have submitted the ICMJE Form for Disclosure of Potential Conflicts of Interest. Conflicts that the editors consider relevant to the con- National Jewish Health for assistance with the literature searches and Valery tent of the manuscript have been disclosed. their assistance and support in the development of these guidelines. Disclaimer. The findings and conclusions in this report are those of the References or the US Department of Veterans Affairs. dence to recommendations. BMJ 2008; 336:1049–51. Financial support. Support for this guideline was provided by the 2. Guyatt GH, Oxman AD, Kunz R, et al; GRADE Working Group. Incorporating considerations of resources use into grading recommendations. BMJ 2008; IDSA and SHEA. 336:1170–3. Potential conflicts of interest. The following list is a reflection of what 3. Jaeschke R, Guyatt GH, Dellinger P, et al; GRADE Working Group. Use of has been reported to IDSA. To provide thorough transparency, IDSA GRADE grid to reach decisions on clinical practice guidelines when consensus is requires full disclosure of all
