Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


for genetic testing. Three genetic defects (MODY3, MODY2, and MODY1, in order of frequency) comprise ≥85% of all known forms of these entities. MODY3 (more so) and MODY1 patients often respond to oral sulfonylureas, especially at younger ages, and may not require insulin injections. MODY2 patients generally do not require any medication, except during pregnancy to protect the fetus from hyperglycemia, which may cause either macrosomia or small birth weight depending on whether both mother and child have the mutation or not. A correct molecular diagnosis is cost-effective in savings from avoiding insulin, offers precise genetic counseling for a 50% chance of occurrence in each offspring of an affected indi­ vidual, and generally has a substantially better prognosis for avoidance of the long-term complications of type 1 or type 2 diabetes. NDM presents as transient or permanent diabetes in the newborn, may be corrected by sulfonylurea medication in specific gene muta­ tions, or may be associated with specific syndromes of congenital malformations. Some forms represent familial inheritance, with less severe defects in the same genes masquerading as type 2 diabetes in first-degree relatives, while many represent spontaneous new mutations. NDM is rare, with an estimated incidence of ~1:100,000 live births; the incidence of NDM is significantly higher in popula­ tions with high rates of consanguinity. MODY and NDM gene defects have been associated with “typical” type 1 and type 2 diabetes clinical presentation; thus, these single gene defects play an important role in the global burden of diabetes. The autosomal recessive congenital generalized lipodystrophy (CGL) and autosomal dominant familial partial lipodystrophy (FPL) are the two most common types of genetic lipodystrophies. Patients with CGL present with near total lack of body fat, while those with FPL have variable loss of fat, mainly from the extremities. Both disorders present with severe insulin resistance, premature diabetes, hyper­ triglyceridemia, and hepatic steatosis. Mutations in AGPAT2, BSCL2, CAV1, and PTRF have been reported in CGL and in LMNA, PPARG, AKT2, and PLIN1 in FPL. Management of diabetes in patients with genetic lipodystrophies involves low-fat diet and high doses of insulin and other antihyperglycemic agents. Metreleptin replacement therapy improves glycemic control, especially in patients with generalized lipodystrophies, and is approved for this specific use in the United States. 7–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition INTRODUCTION Diabetes, a syndrome characterized by hyperglycemia and other metabolic abnor­ malities, occurs when there is a critical degree of deficiency
