Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


the United States. 7–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition INTRODUCTION Diabetes, a syndrome characterized by hyperglycemia and other metabolic abnor­ malities, occurs when there is a critical degree of deficiency of insulin secretion or insulin action or combinations of insulin secretion inadequate to overcome moderate degrees of insulin resistance. Because insulin synthesis, secretion, and action are under complex genetic controls, type 1 and type 2 diabetes are considered to be multifactorial diseases. Type 1 diabetes refers to severe insulin deficiency as the primary abnormality and is most often due to autoimmune destruction of insulin-producing beta cells in the pancreas in the context of clear insulinopenia and ketosis; this autoimmune form is sometimes, and for the purposes of this chapter, specified as type 1a diabetes. Some patients have a clinical picture that is consistent with type 1 diabetes, but the cause of beta cell failure is not known and no autoanti­ bodies are detected; this form of diabetes is sometimes, and for the purposes of this chapter, specified as type 1b (or idio­ pathic) diabetes. It is not known whether these patients have a different underlying pathology or if they have autoantibodies that are not measured by common assays. Type 2 diabetes is associated with insulin resistance and variable degrees of insulin deficiency. However, mutations in single genes, either inherited or as de novo mutations, may result in various forms of monogenic diabetes that mimic type 1 diabetes, type 2 diabetes, and other distinct types. Variants in the same genes that cause maturity-onset diabetes of youth (MODY) and various forms of neonatal diabetes mellitus (NDM) or other syndromes have been increasingly identi­ fied in the more common forms, especially type 2 diabetes, where the severity of the gene defects are milder and, hence, mani­ fest later in life. Thus, the importance of understanding these less common entities far outweighs their incidence or prevalence. All monogenic forms of diabetes, including MODY, NDM, and lipodystrophies, are rare. However, more awareness of these disor­ ders and increased availability of genetic testing in clinical and research labora­ tories, as well as growing use of next generation sequencing, whole genome sequencing, or exome sequencing for clinically challenging phenotypes, are increasing recognition of these conditions. This chapter focuses on common patterns of clinical presentation as occurs with MODY, NDM, and the lipodystrophy syndromes. The presentation, incidence, and prevalence of the more common forms of each entity are
