Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


focuses on common patterns of clinical presentation as occurs with MODY, NDM, and the lipodystrophy syndromes. The presentation, incidence, and prevalence of the more common forms of each entity are highlighted, and the more rare forms are briefly described. Specific genetic defects for all syndromes that fulfill the clinical criteria of MODY, NDM or lipodystrophy syndromes are still not completely defined. MONOGENIC FORMS OF DIABETES Table 7.1 summarizes the monogenic forms of diabetes, including syndrome names, associated genes, and key clinical findings. MODY: GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS MODY is generally referred to as “maturi­ ty-onset diabetes of youth” because when described in the 1970s, the classification of diabetes consisted of two types: (a) juvenile ketosis-prone diabetes with onset at ages <20–25 years, severe insulin deficiency, and hence, dependence on exogenous insulin injections; and (b) maturity-onset diabetes with variable insulin secretion comparable or exceeding levels found in lean (non-obese subjects), onset commonly after age 40 years, and often responsive to oral agents, such as sulfonylureas. Among patients with maturity-onset types of diabetes were adolescents and young adults age <30 years with a strong family history affecting two to three generations, suggesting autosomal dominant transmission, who were responsive in many instances to oral agents, such as sulfonylureas (1). The genetic bases for many of the classic forms of monogenic diabetes are known to be transcription factors or enzymes involved in insulin secretion or forma­ tion of the pancreas and its endocrine TABLE 7.1. Monogenic Forms of Diabetes SYNDROME DEFECTIVE PROTEIN OR GENE OMIM NUMBER* KEY CLINICAL FINDINGS I. Transcription factors and enzymes affecting insulin synthesis/secretion (MODY) I.a. Common types of MODY†—autosomal dominant MODY3 Hepatocyte nuclear factor (HNF)1α 600496 Most common form; present late in first decade to late twenties; islet antibody negative; respond to sulfonylureas initially, but may require insulin later in life. MODY2 Glucokinase (GCK) 125851 Second most common form, but most common form in children; may be diagnosed as gestational diabetes in lean, healthy young woman; do not need insulin or other drugs, except in pregnancy. MODY1 HNF4α 125850 Third most common form; may have macrosomia and hypoglycemia at birth, followed by diabetes later in life; treatment as for MODY3. MODY5 HNF1β 189907 Associated with renal cysts, other vesicogenital anomalies, albuminuria, and renal failure unrelated to the control of diabetes. Table 7.1 continues on the next page. Monogenic Forms of Diabetes 7–3 TABLE 7.1. (continued) SYNDROME DEFECTIVE PROTEIN OR GENE OMIM NUMBER*
