Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


fasting hypoglycemia, and postprandial hyperglycemia Rabson-Mendenhall syndrome Insulin receptor (INSR) 262190 Similar to Donohue syndrome with skeletal/bony deformities Insulin resistance syndrome type A Insulin receptor (INSR) 610549 May not be a specific syndrome distinct from obesity, diabetes, and acanthosis nigricans. VI. Abnormal function of cilia Alstrom syndrome ALMS1 203800 Obesity, type 2 diabetes, blindness, hearing loss, cardiomyopathy Bardet-Biedl syndrome Obesity, type 2 diabetes, blindness, hearing loss, cardiomyopathy HNF, hepatocyte nuclear factor; MODY, maturity-onset diabetes of youth. * The Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM) is an online catalog of human genes and genetic disorders. OMIM can be accessed at omim.org. † The common types of MODY (MODY3, MODY2, MODY1, and MODY5 in descending order of frequency) account for almost 90% of all cases of MODY (see also Figure 7.1). ‡ MODY4–MODY10 account for <1%, and MODY X accounts for ~10% of all cases of MODY. SOURCE: M. A. Sperling, personal communication 7–4 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition function (Figure 7.1) (1,2,3,4,5,6). Hence, these MODY entities could equally well be referred to as “monogenic diabetes of youth.” These syndromes are defined by clinical presentation in pregnancy or early childhood (i.e., MODY2, glucokinase [GCK] loss of function mutation), symp­ tomatic diabetes usually presenting in teens (although a patient as young as age 8 years has been reported) to late twen­ ties (but patients have been diagnosed in their forties) (i.e., MODY3, hepatocyte nuclear factor (HNF) 1α mutation), large size at birth with neonatal hypoglycemia but later appearance of diabetes (i.e., MODY1, HNF4α mutation), and diabetes associated with renal anomalies (i.e., MODY5, HNF1β mutation). These four entities constitute close to 90% of all known mutations in MODY (Figure 7.1). Affected patients typically are negative for autoimmune markers, such as various islet antibodies, have positive family history indicative of autosomal dominant transmission, unless they harbor de novo mutations, and may appear to have low insulin requirements. When measured, insulin levels may be normal or low for the prevailing glucose concentration. Epidemiology Overall, MODY syndromes represent approximately 2%–3% of all patients diagnosed with diabetes; in the United Kingdom, the minimum prevalence of MODY was estimated to be 108 cases per million (5). In the Search for Diabetes in Youth Study (6), of ~5,000 newly presenting children with diabetes with measurement of diabetes autoantibodies and fasting C-peptide, 14.5% (730 subjects) were diabetes autoantibodies negative and fasting C-peptide positive. Of these, 586 subjects were tested for MODY
