Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


children with diabetes with measurement of diabetes autoantibodies and fasting C-peptide, 14.5% (730 subjects) were diabetes autoantibodies negative and fasting C-peptide positive. Of these, 586 subjects were tested for MODY (MODY1, 2, and 3), and 48 (8.2%) were MODY positive. Thus, about 1.2% of the original cohort of children had genetically proven MODY. Non-Hispanic white (35%), African American (24%), Hispanic (26%), and Asian and Pacific Islander (13%) individ­ uals were represented in the MODY group, and most were considered to have either type 1 diabetes and treated with insulin or type 2 diabetes and treated with metformin and other oral hypoglycemic medications. A clinical presentation before age 25–30 years of apparent mild type 1 diabetes or type 2 diabetes with negative diabetes autoantibodies and positive C-peptide, as well as a positive family history in two to three generations should prompt consider­ ation of a diagnosis of MODY and referral for molecular diagnostics to confirm the diagnosis. The correct diagnosis permits correct genetic counseling, because the risk of affected offspring is 50%, rather than 5%–10% as in type 1 diabetes. Appropriate management for patients with MODY2 is exercise and diet, which usually suffice to control blood glucose, except in pregnancy when insulin may be required to control blood glucose to avoid the consequences of hyperglycemia in the fetus. Patients with MODY3 and MODY1 usually respond to sulfonylureas, though about one-third may lose this responsiveness in time and progress to require insulin (1,2,3,4). The response to sulfonylureas is much more pronounced in MODY3 patients, such that hypogly­ cemia may ensue. Rather than transfer to insulin or other agents, the best approach is smaller doses, down to 1.25 mg per day or even less to achieve very reasonable glycemic control in hyper-responsive MODY3 patients. The early appearance of albuminuria, or a family history of renal cysts or other renal anomalies, should prompt consideration of MODY5. Subjects with MODY5 generally require insulin for therapy and careful management of their renal manifestations. Common Forms of MODY As shown in Figure 7.1, MODY3, MODY2, MODY1, and MODY5 together constitute ~90% of all forms of MODY and almost 98% of all known MODY mutations. Two forms, MODY3 and MODY1, are caused by heterozygous mutations in the tran­ scription factors HNF1α and HNF4α, respectively, whereas MODY2 is caused by a heterozygous inactivating mutation in the enzyme glucokinase, which acts as the sensing apparatus of glucose concen­ tration within
