Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


on chromosome 11. Also illustrated is one unit of the ATP-regulated potassium channel (KATP), governed by the ratio of ATP:ADP. The channel remains open in the basal state, allowing efflux of potassium from the interior to the exterior of the beta cell and leaving the plasma membrane in a hyperpolarized state. Each KATP channel consists of four subunits of the inward rectifying potassium channel (Kir6.2), encoded by the KCNJ11 gene, and four surrounding regulatory units, the sulfo­ nylurea receptor (SUR1), encoded by the ABCC8 gene (lower left quadrant); both genes are located on chromosome 11. Also illustrated are voltage-gated calcium channels, designated as CaV 1.2/1.3 and CaV 2.3. Stored insulin granules lined up on the cell membrane constitute a quickly releasable pool of insulin responsible for the first phase insulin response after glucose is acutely raised. A slower releasable pool of insulin granules is more internal but can be mobilized to constitute the second phase insulin response when higher glucose is maintained. In the stimulated state (lower right quadrant), when blood glucose rises after a meal, it enters the beta cell via the GLUT2 glucose transporter, a non-insulin regulated process. Glucokinase acts as a glucose sensor and phosphorylates glucose to glucose-6-phosphate (G6P), permitting its metabolism to produce ATP. The higher ATP:ADP results in closure of the KATP channel, retention of intracellular K+, which leads to membrane depolariza­ tion, opening of the voltage-gated Ca2+ channel allowing for influx of calcium, and the secretion of insulin as first and then second phase responses. In this way, the chemical energy of glucose is converted to the electrical activity of the beta cell, creating a “rheostat” effect, with high insulin secretion when glucose is high and a fall in insulin secretion as glucose falls in response to the actions of insulin. Activating mutations of KATP components keep the channel open, preventing insulin secretion, i.e., leading to neonatal diabetes, the severity of which is proportional to the severity of the defect. In many instances, channel closure with resultant insulin secretion can be restored by sulfonylureas that act on the SUR1 regulatory unit even though the mutation is in the Kir6.2 channel unit encoded by KCNJ11. By contrast, inactivating mutations of these KATP components prevent opening of the channel and result in insulin secretion unregulated by glucose concentration and, hence, hyperinsulinemic hypogly­ cemia. The drug diazoxide acts to open channels and may reduce insulin secretion, although
