Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


of the channel and result in insulin secretion unregulated by glucose concentration and, hence, hyperinsulinemic hypogly­ cemia. The drug diazoxide acts to open channels and may reduce insulin secretion, although it has many other side effects, including hypertension and edema (6,7). Heterozygous inactivating mutations in GCK create a rightward shift in the ability of the enzyme to phosphorylate glucose, resulting in normal insulin secretion but at higher than normal glucose concentra­ tions. Thus, the set point of glucose is on the order of 90–120 mg/dL (5.00–6.66 mmol/L) in the basal state and briefly in the range of diabetes after a meal, but it returns to normal as adequate insulin secretion occurs at the higher glucose concentrations (Figure 7.3). The result is “mild” diabetes, as seen in MODY2. Homozygous inactivating mutations of GCK result in the virtual absence of phosphorylating activity and, hence, NDM. By contrast, activating mutations in GCK cause inappropriately high insulin secretion at lower glucose concentrations, causing hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia of infancy and a milder adult form of familial hypoglycemia, the severity of which will be proportional to the degree of activation of GCK (1,2,3,4,6,7). MODY3. MODY3 is due to mutations in the transcription factor HNF1α gene, located on chromosome 12q24.2 and expressed in liver and beta cells. The gene is regulated to some extent by HNF4α, providing a link between MODY1 and MODY3. In most series, this entity is the most common form of MODY (Figure 7.1), with over 120 known mutations, though MODY2 is as, or more, common when assessed in younger subjects (age <20 years). Birth weight is normal in MODY3 patients, and symptoms of diabetes usually appear towards the end of the first decade or in the second to third decades; some patients are entirely asymptomatic despite glucose values in the low-mid FIGURE 7.2. Schematic Representation of a Beta (β) Cell Please see text for detailed explanation of insulin synthesis and secretion. ATP/ADP, adenosine triphosphate/ adenosine diphosphate; Cav, voltage-gated calcium channel; Glut 2, glucose transporter 2; KATP, ATP-regulated potas­ sium channel; Kir, inward rectifying potassium channel; SUR, sulfonylurea receptor. SOURCE: M. A. Sperling, personal communication 7–6 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition 200 mg/dL (11.10 mmol/L) range and glycosylated hemoglobin (A1c) in the 7.5%–8.5% (58–69 mmol/mol) range at diagnosis. Others present with diabetic ketoacidosis. Females may be diagnosed with gestational diabetes; a lean young woman with a family history of diabetes in her parents, grandparents, or
