Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


range at diagnosis. Others present with diabetic ketoacidosis. Females may be diagnosed with gestational diabetes; a lean young woman with a family history of diabetes in her parents, grandparents, or siblings, who is found to have gestational diabetes, should be tested for MODY2 and, if nega- tive, for MODY3. Most patients with MODY3 (and MODY1) are initially responsive to sulfonylureas, which promote endogenous insulin secre- tion and correct hyperglycemia, but about one-third to one-half of affected subjects may have progressive insulinopenia with increasing age, ultimately requiring insulin for treatment. However, newer agents combined with sulfonylureas may prove useful for good glycemic control in the absence of exogenous insulin. Once the mutation is confirmed, genetic counseling must emphasize that these mutations are dominant, so statistically 50% of offspring are likely to have the same condition. Other family members are also likely to have the mutation and should also be considered for DNA sequencing. Rare subjects have been reported to develop type 1a diabetes with markers of autoimmunity, such as glutamic acid decarboxylase 65kD (GAD65) and/or islet cell autoantibodies (ICA) being positive, despite being negative for these markers at initial diagnosis (8). Mutations in HNF1α have been described as an uncommon cause of “type 2 diabetes,” if in a mild form and discovered after age 35–40 years (8). MODY2. MODY2 is due to decreased beta cell sensing of glucose due to loss of func- tion mutations in glucokinase encoded by the GCK gene on chromosome 7p15- p13 (Figure 7.3). The prevalence of GCK mutations causing MODY2 in the overall population is suggested to be 0.04%–0.1%; thus, up to 1:1,000 women of childbearing age are likely to have a GCK mutation when they present with gestational diabetes (9). This form of MODY presents as mild fasting and postprandial hyper- glycemia and is usually asymptomatic. Hyperglycemia may be discovered as an incidental finding in a child or adult during a routine blood chemistry check performed for an unrelated illness; islet cell antibodies are negative and glucose tolerance testing, if performed, shows mild hyperglycemia, rarely exceeding 200 mg/dL with delayed return to modestly elevated basal glucose concentrations in the range of 90–130 mg/dL (5.00–7.22 mmol/L). Insulin levels, if measured, are appropriate but occur at higher than normal glucose concentrations. A1c values are generally in the 6.3%–7.5% (45–58 mmol/mol) range. In the absence of a family history, such patients may be considered to have type 1
