Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


mg/dL, permitting adequate insulin secretion at somewhat higher glucose concentrations. This results in a “mild” diabetes phenotype, discovered by chance or during screening for gestational diabetes or other indications. Homozygous inactivating mutations in GCK cannot reach the GSIR threshold and result in neonatal diabetes mellitus. Conversions for glucose values are provided in Diabetes in America Appendix 1 Conversions. ATP, adenosine triphosphate; MODY, maturity-onset diabetes of youth; NDM, neonatal diabetes mellitus. SOURCE: M. A. Sperling, personal communication Monogenic Forms of Diabetes 7–7 infant has a 50% risk of inheriting each parent’s mutation, but a 25% risk of inher­ iting both mutations and therefore having permanent NDM. Rare cases have been described of patients with MODY2 who have gone on to develop autoimmune (anti­ body positive) type 1a diabetes in addition to their genetic defect of insulin secretion; hence, periodic evaluation of patients with MODY2 is recommended. In some series, MODY2 is the most common form of MODY identified, and it particularly is the most common form in those diagnosed at age <15–20 years (1,2,3,4,9). MODY1. MODY1 occurs due to muta­ tions in the HNF4α gene located on chromosome 20q12-q13.1. It was the first transcription factor mutation discovered for MODY; normally, the gene is expressed in liver, kidney, intestine, and islets. HNF4α is a known key regulator of hepatic gene expression, and MODY1, like MODY3, is characterized by progressive insu­ linopenia with increasing age. Likewise, the clinical features of MODY1 are similar to those of patients with MODY3. Clinical onset of symptoms and recognition of hyperglycemia most commonly occurs in the mid-twenties but may occur later in some families. Most affected individuals are sensitive to the sulfonylurea drugs, which restore insulin secretion and lower glucose, but about one-third of subjects may develop progressive insulinopenia and require a combination of oral hypo­ glycemic agents or insulin for treatment. A distinguishing and perhaps defining characteristic of MODY1 is that affected subjects weigh about 800 g more at birth than their unaffected siblings, suggesting hyperinsulinemia effects in utero (10). Moreover, hyperinsulinemia at birth with symptomatic neonatal hypoglycemia that resolves spontaneously has been reported in some patients (10). These findings suggest that HNF4α mutations at first cause excessive secretion of insulin, directly or indirectly, and only later result in hypoinsulinemia and diabetes. The reasons for this paradox are not known. Patients with HNF4α have been reported to have lower levels of lipoprotein A2 and high-density lipoprotein
