Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


later result in hypoinsulinemia and diabetes. The reasons for this paradox are not known. Patients with HNF4α have been reported to have lower levels of lipoprotein A2 and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, features commonly seen in type 2 diabetes and so may be misclassified, especially if clinical onset of diabetes occurs later in life. Reports of markedly lower concentra­ tions of high sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) in patients with MODY3 (4) have not been reported in MODY1 (1,2,3,4,11); moreover, the findings of low hsCRP in MODY3 were not confirmed in a more recent report (6). Hence, hsCRP cannot be considered as a screening test to iden­ tify patients suspected of having MODY1 before embarking on molecular diagnosis (1,2,3,4,11). MODY5. MODY5 individuals have a muta­ tion in the HNF1β gene (12,13). HNF1β regulates HNF4α and, hence, may provide a link between MODY5 and MODY1. Originally discovered in Japanese families with MODY, the phenotype is character­ ized by cystic renal disease and other associated anomalies, including vaginal/ uterine malformations, other genital abnormalities, abnormal liver function, hyperuricemia, and the early appearance of proteinuria that is not due to diabetic renal disease. The renal cystic manifesta­ tions may predominate with unawareness or absence of diabetes; patients may be referred from a renal clinic for evaluation of incidentally discovered hyperglycemia. Alternatively, MODY5 may be considered because a patient with insulin-requiring diabetes has siblings or parents with renal anomalies and early renal failure. Patients with MODY5 display insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia with associated dyslipidemia. Unlike patients with MODY3 and MODY1, they do not respond to sulfo­ nylurea drugs and usually require insulin for management. Subclinical pancreatic exocrine deficiency is present in most patients, so both exocrine and endocrine pancreatic functions are affected, and pancreatic size is smaller. Patients who are homozygous for mutations in HNF1β have severe NDM associated with other congenital anomalies (1,2,3,4,12,13). MODY4, 6–10, X. MODY4 is due to mutation in the gene for the transcription factor PDX1 (pancreatic and duodenal homeobox), also known as IPF1 (insulin promoter factor), on chromosome 13q12.2. This transcription factor is important for specifying the development of the pancreas and duodenum, as well as the transcription of insulin, somatostatin, and other islet hormones. Diabetes results from a combination of reduced gene dosage, together with a dominant-negative inhibition of transcription of INS and other factors regulated by the mutant IPF1/ PDX1 (14). MODY6 is due to mutation in the transcription
