Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


reduced gene dosage, together with a dominant-negative inhibition of transcription of INS and other factors regulated by the mutant IPF1/ PDX1 (14). MODY6 is due to mutation in the transcription factor NEUROD1 that activates transcription of INS (15). Presentation is similar to that of patients with MODY3. MODY7 is attributed to mutations in Kruppel-like factor 11 (KLF11), a transcription factor involved in regulating PDX1. MODY8 is attributed to mutations in the carboxyl-ester lipase gene (CEL), encoding an enzyme and associated with both endocrine and exocrine pancre­ atic dysfunction, leading to diabetes with evidence of malabsorption (16). The tran­ scription factor PAX4 (paired homeobox 4) involved in beta cell development was found to be mutated in two Thai families with a MODY syndrome, designated MODY9, a finding not replicated to date in a selected European population of patients with MODY after excluding the common forms (3,17). Mutations in the insulin gene itself may cause a form of MODY desig­ nated as MODY10, although mutations in the insulin gene more commonly cause a form of NDM described below (18). MODY X is a term applied to cases where the clinical phenotype is consistent with MODY but a genetic cause has not been identified, i.e., X is the unknown. All of these rare forms of MODY generally present with a history and phenotype similar to MODY3; diagnostic clues may be provided by the presence of features, such as malabsorption (CEL, MODY8), but otherwise are so rare that they are best considered in the context of a likely MODY syndrome, and if negative for the more common types, such patients should be referred to a specialized center for possible molecular diagnosis (1,2,3,4,18). Most subjects thought to be in these groups have benign sequence polymorphisms that are not likely to be disease-causing. 7–8 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition Differentiating the Common Forms of MODY From Type 1 and Type 2 Diabetes The typical patient with MODY differs from type 1 diabetes in being negative for islet antibodies, differs from type 2 diabetes in typically being lean, is more likely to have a family history of other affected family members in an auto­ somal dominant pattern, and may have a prolonged “honeymoon” phase or low insulin requirements reflecting retention of endogenous insulin secretion confirmed by a C-peptide level ≥0.8 ng/mL. None of these characteristics is absolute; the increasing prevalence of obesity is blur­ ring distinctions of
