Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


requirements reflecting retention of endogenous insulin secretion confirmed by a C-peptide level ≥0.8 ng/mL. None of these characteristics is absolute; the increasing prevalence of obesity is blur­ ring distinctions of phenotype between type 1 and type 2 diabetes, and Hispanic and African patients with MODY1–3 are being identified in the United States. For practical purposes, a diagnosis of MODY1–3 should be sought in those considered to have MODY, and MODY5 should be considered in those with renal manifestations unlikely to be secondary to the diabetes (1,2,3,4,18,19). Gene mutation analysis is available from Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA)-certified commercial laboratories, as well as research centers in the United States and Europe. OTHER SINGLE GENE DEFECTS ASSOCIATED WITH DIABETES DUE TO DEFECTIVE INSULIN SYNTHESIS/SECRETION Table 7.1 lists the most common single gene defects associated with defective insulin synthesis or secretion that may result in clinical diabetes. Those defects include the insulin gene (INS) itself, which dependent on the severity of the mutation, result in variable degrees of hyper­ glycemia, ranging from permanent or transient NDM presenting in the first 6–9 months of life to MODY and (rarely) later onset of apparent type 1 diabetes (type 1b diabetes) or type 2 diabetes. No unique features distinguish these forms of clinical diabetes. Variable patterns are, however, imparted by the autosomal dominant versus autosomal recessive forms, as subsequently detailed in the description of NDM. Wolfram Syndrome: Diabetes Insipidus, Diabetes Mellitus, Optic Atrophy, Deafness (DIDMOAD) Wolfram syndrome is an autosomal reces­ sive disorder, characterized by several associated abnormalities that tend to develop in a particular sequence over time. This rare disorder has an estimated population prevalence of 1:770,000 births and a carrier frequency of 1 in 354 people (20,21). Optic atrophy closely follows or precedes the onset of diabetes. In one series, the median age of onset of diabetes was 6 years, followed by progressive optic atrophy at 11 years with near total loss of vision over the following decade. Central diabetes insipidus is the next most common manifestation, followed by sensorineural deafness in the second decade. By the third decade, patients may have incontinence and evidence of neurologic degeneration with cerebellar ataxia and myoclonus by the fourth decade. A wide arc of neurolog­ ical manifestations includes autonomic neuropathy, loss of sense of taste and smell, hemiparesis, myoclonus, and absent or reduced reflexes. Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrates brain atrophy. Psychiatric illness characterized by dementia and short-term
