Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


includes autonomic neuropathy, loss of sense of taste and smell, hemiparesis, myoclonus, and absent or reduced reflexes. Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrates brain atrophy. Psychiatric illness characterized by dementia and short-term memory loss and suicidal ideation are common later in the evolution of this syndrome. Presumed carriers of this mutation have been reported to be predisposed to psychiatric illness. Affected individuals have insulin deficiency requiring insulin for treat­ ment. The diabetes insipidus responds to desmopressin. Some patients also benefit from hearing aids for their deafness. Gonadal atrophy is also common later in males, although some females have been reported to have successful pregnancies. Heterozygous carriers of this mutation have an increased frequency of hearing loss and diabetes. A second locus (WFS2) on the long arm of chromosome 4 (4q22-24) has only been reported in a consanguineous Jordanian pedigree (21). Here, gastrointestinal bleeding is a major manifestation. The function of the WFS1 remains unknown. There are some simi­ larities between Wolfram syndrome and mitochondrial diseases, such as Leber’s hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON) and mitochondrial encephalomyopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke-like episodes (MELAS). Although diabetes does occur in MELAS, and optic atrophy is a feature of LHON, these syndromes are clearly due to mitochondrial genome mutations (see the section on Maternally Inherited Diabetes and Deafness). Some heteroplasmic deletions in mitochondrial DNA have been found in patients with features similar to Wolfram syndrome, but examination of mitochondrial DNA in patients with classic Wolfram shows no evidence for specific mutations or general mutations or dele­ tions (21). Thiamine-Responsive Megaloblastic Anemia Thiamine-responsive megaloblastic anemia (TRMA) and diabetes are due to a defect in the thiamine transporter SLC19A2. TRMA, also known as Rogers syndrome, combines megaloblastic anemia, diabetes, and sensorineural deaf­ ness, which respond by variable degrees to thiamine replacement. The SLC19A2 gene encodes a transmembrane protein that acts as the thiamine transporter and has homology to reduced folate carrier proteins. Cardiac anomalies and abnor­ malities of the optic nerves and retina may occur occasionally in the TRMA syndrome. Markers of autoimmunity are absent in this autosomal recessive form of diabetes. Pharmacologic doses of thiamine may reverse anemia and diabetes early in the course of the disease; however, some­ time during and after puberty, thiamine supplements may become ineffective, so all patients require insulin therapy with regular blood transfusions in adulthood (22). Pigmented Hypertrichosis and Insulin-Dependent Diabetes Yet another rare syndrome characterized by pigmented hypertrichosis and insu­ lin-dependent
