Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


ineffective, so all patients require insulin therapy with regular blood transfusions in adulthood (22). Pigmented Hypertrichosis and Insulin-Dependent Diabetes Yet another rare syndrome characterized by pigmented hypertrichosis and insu­ lin-dependent diabetes (PHID) with other multiple associated anomalies is due to the SLC29A3 gene, which encodes a transporter for nucleosides, nucleobases, and nucleoside analogue drugs. Loss- of-function mutations in this gene cause PHID, as well as the related syndrome Monogenic Forms of Diabetes 7–9 without diabetes termed the H syndrome. PHID patients may have severe exocrine pancreatic deficiency, as well as pigmented hypertrichotic skin patches with chronic inflammation (23). Maternally Inherited Diabetes and Deafness Maternally inherited diabetes and deafness (MIDD) is associated with the 3243A>G mitochondrial DNA point muta­ tion, a condition that may affect up to 1% of patients with diabetes. These gene mutations are nearly always inherited from the mother, since mitochondrial DNA is present in oocytes but not in sperma­ tozoa. Therefore, relatives on the maternal side may also have manifestations of mito­ chondrial gene defects, of which diabetes is the third most common systemic mani­ festation after cardiac conduction defects and cardiomyopathy. Other systemic manifestations include short stature, pigmentary retinopathy, lactic acidosis, glomerulopathy with focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, and strokes with cere­ bellar and cerebral atrophy. Because the 3243A>G mutation results in diminished ATP production, tissues with high energy turnover, such as pancreatic islets and the cochlear stria vascularis, are affected, explaining the presence of deafness and diabetes. The diabetes may be variable in its severity, presenting as diabetic keto­ acidosis in young patients and, therefore, being misdiagnosed as type 1 diabetes. Alternatively, milder forms may present later in life and be diagnosed as type 2 diabetes. LHON and MELAS may be part of the same familial spectrum and are due to the same gene mutation. Some patients with MIDD have been reported to have classic islet cell antibodies, which may represent coincident autoimmune mechanisms or represent secondary response to pancreatic beta cell destruc­ tion related to the mitochondrial gene mutation and its potential effects on inducing apoptosis within the islets. The prognosis for MIDD is determined by the associated systemic manifes­ tations, including cardiac failure and central nervous system dysfunction, and the diabetes requires insulin in those with younger severe onset but may be managed conservatively, at least at first, in older patients presenting with a pattern suggestive of type 2 diabetes. Genetic counseling is important in
