Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


with younger severe onset but may be managed conservatively, at least at first, in older patients presenting with a pattern suggestive of type 2 diabetes. Genetic counseling is important in clarifying the maternal inheritance of this entity to affected family members (24). NEONATAL DIABETES MELLITUS NDM is defined as diabetes that is diagnosed within the first 6 months of life, though some mutations may cause diabetes that manifests up to age 9 months or later. Because of the benefit that occurs by transfer from insulin to sulfonylurea treatment in those with KATP channel mutations, it has been suggested that KATP mutations as a cause should be sought in those presenting with diabetes up to 9 months of age. However, autoim­ mune diabetes (type 1a diabetes) before 6 months of life is unlikely to occur, so investigating the possible genetic basis of NDM should be undertaken in all babies with diabetes diagnosed when less than 6 months of age and later if they are not found to have islet antibodies. A classifica­ tion of NDM is shown in Table 7.2. Epidemiology The incidence of NDM is estimated to be approximately 1:100,000 live births, though in countries with high rates of consanguinity, the incidence has been reported to be as high as 1:21,000 live births (6,25). Infants with NDM have low insulin concentrations and generally are small at birth, reflecting the important role of insulin as a fetal growth factor. About one-half of all infants with NDM have permanent diabetes from the outset (PNDM). The other half of infants affected by diabetes in the first weeks to months of life demonstrate the phenomenon of remission in clinical manifestations of diabetes with near normal glucose homeo­ stasis in the absence of any treatment, but relapse at variable times subsequently (Table 7.2) (25,26,27,28,29,30,31). This condition is termed transient neonatal diabetes (TNDM), and of these cases, two-thirds to three-quarters will be due to abnormalities in imprinted genes or meth­ ylation defects in the chromosome 6q24 region (Table 7.2) (28). The remaining transient forms of NDM have defects in components of the KATP channel, including TABLE 7.2. Classification of Neonatal Diabetes Mellitus TRANSIENT (TNDM) 45% PERMANENT (PNDM) 45% SYNDROME—RARE 10% TNDM1 70% of TNDM Involves 6q24. Disturbance of imprinted genes PLAGL (ZAC) and HYMAI caused by: §§ Paternal uniparental disomy (sporadic) §§ Paternal chromosome 6 duplication (dominant transmission) §§ Relaxation of imprinting maternal hypomethylation—sporadic or mutation
