Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


Disturbance of imprinted genes PLAGL (ZAC) and HYMAI caused by: §§ Paternal uniparental disomy (sporadic) §§ Paternal chromosome 6 duplication (dominant transmission) §§ Relaxation of imprinting maternal hypomethylation—sporadic or mutation in the transcription factor ZFP57 TNDM2 15% of TNDM ABCC8 (SUR1) mutations 10% of TNDM KCNJ11 (Kir6.2) mutations 5% of TNDM Mutations in INS, HNF1β, SLC2A2 50% KCNJ11 ±DEND syndrome 30% INS mutation 15% ABCC8 ±DEND syndrome 3% GCK*, homozygous 2% Others IPF1/PDX1*, homozygous HNF1β* EIF2AK3—spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia, renal anomalies FOXP3—IPEX (immuno­dys­reg­ u­lation, polyendocrinopathy, enteropathy, X-linked) GLIS3—hypothyroid, hepatic fibrosis, glaucoma, cystic kidneys, developmental delay PTF1A—pancreatic and cerebellar agenesis RFX6—digestive system defects, known as Mitchell-Riley syndrome NEUROG3—with congenital malabsorptive diarrhea and enteroendocrine cell dysgenesis GATA6 and GATA4—with varying degrees of pancreatic agenesis, pancreatic exocrine dysfunction and cardiac malformations DEND, developmental delay, epilepsy, neonatal diabetes; GCK, glucokinase; HNF, hepatocyte nuclear factor; INS, insulin gene; Kir, inward rectifying potassium channel; PNDM, permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus; PTF, pancreas transcription factor; RFX6, regulatory factor X, 6; SUR, sulfonylurea receptor; TNDM, transient neonatal diabetes mellitus. * Heterozygous mutations in GCK, IPF1/PDX1, and HNF1β cause MODY2, MODY4, and MODY5, respectively. SOURCE: M. A. Sperling, personal communication 7–10 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition Kir6.2 encoded by KCNJ11 or the SUR1 regulatory subunit encoded by ABCC8; occasionally, INS mutations cause tran­ sient NDM. More commonly, mutations in these KATP subunits, along with mutations in INS itself, are responsible for PNDM. Those with KCNJ11 or ABCC8 mutations can be treated with sulfonylurea, thereby restoring endogenous insulin secretion, which improves metabolic control and prevents hypoglycemia and wide glycemic excursions (28,29,30,31,32). A second category of PNDM is due to various gene mutations associated with an array of congenital malformations (Table 7.2) (3,4,30,31,32,33,34). Because it is not known at the time of clinical presentation in the newborn whether the diabetes will remit or remain permanent, the four essential mutations that must be checked are the 6q24 imprinting defects, KCNJ11, ABCC8, and INS. Transient Neonatal Diabetes Due to Imprinting Defects on Chromosome 6q24 Children born with TNDM are generally quite small, weighing approximately 2,000 g at birth. The diabetes is generally diag­ nosed in the first week or so of life, but it may be delayed until age 2–3 months. Initially, insulin is required for treatment, but requirements seem to diminish as evidenced by hypoglycemia after injec­ tions, and remission occurs at a median of about 3 months of life. Some patients with this form
