Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


treatment, but requirements seem to diminish as evidenced by hypoglycemia after injec­ tions, and remission occurs at a median of about 3 months of life. Some patients with this form of TNDM have macroglossia and occasionally an umbilical hernia, which is reminiscent of the Wiedemann-Beckwith syndrome, another condition character­ ized by methylation defects observed in the chromosome 11 region rather than chromosome 6q24. During remission, insulin responses to various stimuli appear normal, and the infants have near normal glucose metabolism. Relapse, if it occurs, generally does so in the mid-pubertal years. The pathophysiology of TNDM results from overexpression of the pater­ nally expressed genes with extinction of the maternal genes in a region of chromo­ some 6q24. A common cause is paternal uniparental disomy or paternal duplication of 6q24 that is found in familial cases. In others, abnormal methylation of the maternal copy of chromosome 6 renders the genes inactive and permits the unop­ posed action of the paternal genes on this region. The actual genes involved are ZAC (zinc finger gene regulating apoptosis and the cell cycle), also referred to as PLAGL1 (pleiomorphic adenoma gene-like 1), and a second gene termed HYMAI (hydatidiform mole associated and imprinted gene). Those who relapse can sometimes be treated with oral hypoglycemic agents and may not necessarily require insulin (28,31). In terms of genetic counseling, those with uniparental disomy of chromosome 6 are sporadic. However, duplications of the 6q24 region in the father cause familial paternal duplications, resulting in a 50% chance of transmission to each of their subsequent children. Females who transmit the duplication do not have affected children, but the sons may pass the risk to their subsequent children. The 6q24 type of TNDM is known as TNDM1, whereas the subtypes due to KATP muta­ tions are known as TNDM2 (28,32). In the TNDM2 category, comprising some 30% of TNDM, ~15% are due to muta­ tions in ABCC8, ~10% are due to KCNJ11 mutations, and about 5% are caused by mutations in INS, HNF1β, and the glucose transporter SLC2A2 (Table 7.2). Permanent Neonatal Diabetes The most common mutations responsible for PNDM are those in Kir6.2 (KCNJ11) and INS, followed by SUR1 (ABCC8). Most patients have isolated diabetes only, but those with severe Kir6.2 mutations and some with a SUR1 mutation also may have a syndrome characterized by developmental delay, epilepsy, and NDM (DEND), or intermediate forms of this entity characterized by
