Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


severe Kir6.2 mutations and some with a SUR1 mutation also may have a syndrome characterized by developmental delay, epilepsy, and NDM (DEND), or intermediate forms of this entity characterized by diabetes and some developmental delay but without epilepsy. Patients are usually diagnosed within the first month, but diagnosis may be delayed beyond age 6 months. Those with SUR1 mutations causing NDM have a similar presentation but are less likely to have DEND. As shown in Figure 7.2, these mutations cause a gain of function, activating the potassium channel so that it stays open and, hence, preventing insulin secretion. Despite the near absence of insulin and C-peptide when tested and previous dependence on exogenous insulin for treatment, the majority of patients with KCNJ11 and ABCC8 mutations respond to high doses of sulfonylurea therapy using glibenclamide (glyburide), which can restore normal insulin secretion in some 85% of subjects, along with restoration of the incretin response to oral feeding (35). This holds true also for those with the SUR1 mutations (36). There is debate whether the use of glibenclamide, partic­ ularly if started early, also improves the neurological manifestations, since there is evidence that the glibenclamide also binds to SUR subunits found in nerve, muscle, and brain (17,37,38,39). Clinical experience supports the notion that there is improvement in neurologic sequelae (38,39). Glibenclamide therapy at high doses should be gradually introduced; if possible, treatment should not be begun empirically without a genetic diagnosis, and should be supervised in a hospital setting while transitioning the patient off insulin. Most children with KATP mutations repre­ sent de novo mutations without a family history, though family history is present in some 10%–15%. In these instances of a positive family history, sequencing in the affected family members should be performed because sulfonylureas may still be effective in those with mutations in the KCNJ11 gene. Because the KATP channel mutations usually are dominant, each affected individual may pass on the gene to 50% of their offspring. Some parents labeled as having “type 2 diabetes” actu­ ally have INS mutations that are recessive and can cause NDM in 25% of their offspring (40). Parents of children with what appears to be a de novo mutation must be counseled with the possibility of a second child being affected, as a result of germ line mosaicism in which the muta­ tion is present in the gonads (sperm), but not in the peripheral
