Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


possibility of a second child being affected, as a result of germ line mosaicism in which the muta­ tion is present in the gonads (sperm), but not in the peripheral blood. Mutations in INS that are responsible for dominantly inherited NDM generally are associated with misfolding of the insulin molecule, which progressively impairs Monogenic Forms of Diabetes 7–11 insulin secretion (33,40). Generally, there are no associated abnormalities in neuro­ logical function with INS mutations (40). (See the section on Genetic Defects of the Insulin Gene.) Other Causes of Neonatal Diabetes Mellitus Table 7.2 lists the causes of NDM. Excluding the methylation defects associated with chromosome 6q24, KATP channel defects, and INS defects, the remaining causes are rare but provide insight into the regulation of pancreas formation and insulin secretion (3,4,18). It must be emphasized that milder defects in the KCNJ11 gene are associated with “typical type 2 diabetes” and that KCNJ11 mutations/polymorphisms are the third most frequent genetic risk factor for type 2 diabetes after TCF7L2 and PPARG (19). As discussed in connection with the monogenic forms of diabetes, homozygous mutation in GCK encoding the glucokinase enzyme and homozygous mutation in PDX1 cause severe neonatal diabetes (see Table 7.2). Some mutations in the GLUT2 transporter encoded by the SLC2A2 gene (41) and the HNF1β gene (42) cause autosomal dominant NDM (see Table 7.2). Of the others listed in Table 7.2, EIF2AK3 (eukaryotic initiation factor 2 alpha kinase 3) is likely the most common and is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by multiple congenital malformations, including spondyloepi­ physeal dysplasia, renal failure, recurrent hepatitis, and mental retardation, also known as the Wolcott-Rallison syndrome (43,44). However, NDM may be the initial presentation without other abnormalities. The mutations responsible for NDM in the FOXP3 gene result in a syndrome termed IPEX, which stands for immune dysregulation, with polyendocrinopathy and enteropathy on the X chromosome, and is characterized by intractable diar­ rhea, skin rashes, immune dysregulation, and elevated IgE. This is an X-linked condition (45). Mutations in GLIS3 cause an autosomal recessive syndrome charac­ terized by congenital hypothyroidism, liver fibrosis, cystic kidney disease, and glau­ coma in addition to NDM (46). Mutations in PTF1A (pancreas transcription factor 1A) cause an autosomal recessive form of pancreatic agenesis with exocrine and endocrine pancreatic dysfunction, as well as cerebellar agenesis (47). RFX6 (regula­ tory factor X, 6) is a gene that regulates pancreatic development together with development of
