Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


agenesis with exocrine and endocrine pancreatic dysfunction, as well as cerebellar agenesis (47). RFX6 (regula­ tory factor X, 6) is a gene that regulates pancreatic development together with development of other organs derived from the endoderm; hence, mutations in this gene result in NDM, hypoplastic or annular pancreas, and duodenal and jejunal atresia. The constellation of defects caused by mutations in RFX6 is also known as the Mitchell-Riley syndrome and carries a poor prognosis with death in the first year of life (48,49). Mutation in NEUROG3 (Neurogenin3) is associated with NDM plus congenital malabsorptive diarrhea and enteroen­ docrine cell dysgenesis (50). GATA6 and GATA4 haploinsufficiency are reported to be associated with pancreatic agenesis and congenital heart defects. These gene mutations are more common causes of pancreatic agenesis than homozygous PDX1 mutations (51). GENETIC DEFECTS OF THE INSULIN GENE INS is located on chromosome 11p15.5, and defects in INS itself are responsible for a spectrum of disordered glucose homeostasis ranging from NDM, either permanent from the outset or initially transient, as well as later onset apparent type 2 diabetes. The permanent NDM phenotypes can be due to dominantly inherited mutations in critical regions of the preproinsulin molecule, predicted to cause misfolding of the molecule that prevents normal insulin secretion (33). In humans, these dominant mutations represent the second most common cause of PNDM, where clinical manifes­ tations may sometimes be delayed to age 6–12 months or later, in contrast to the more common KCNJ11 mutations that usually manifest within the first 6 months of life (3,4,18,33,34). Recessive mutations in INS causing NDM also are reported (40). Compared to domi­ nant mutations, these recessive defects cause a more severe form of insulin deficiency and are manifest by lower birth weight (-3.2 SD score vs. -2.0 SD score) and earlier diagnosis (median of diagnosis at age 1 week vs. 10 weeks). Notably, some patients with the recessively inher­ ited insulin mutations have TNDM, while others with homozygous mutations may not manifest clinical diabetes until the teen years or later. Some heterozygous carriers of the recessive mutations have diabetes diagnosed in middle life, suggesting less severe interference with insulin synthesis and resulting in the phenotype of type 2 diabetes (40). GENETIC DEFECTS OF INSULIN PROCESSING The prohormone convertases, PC1/3 and PC2, are enzymes that cleave peptide hormones and neuropeptides from precursor molecules in neuroen­ docrine cells, such as the brain, pituitary and adrenal, as
