Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


PROCESSING The prohormone convertases, PC1/3 and PC2, are enzymes that cleave peptide hormones and neuropeptides from precursor molecules in neuroen­ docrine cells, such as the brain, pituitary and adrenal, as well as the islets in the pancreas. The enzymes, PCSK (proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type)-1/3 and -2, act in concert to process proinsulin and proglucagon to yield the respective hormones in islets, as well as cleaving the prohormones for adrenocortical trophic hormone (ACTH) and gonado­ tropic-releasing hormone (GnRH). As a result, mutations in these genes result in secondary hypocortisolism, hypogonad­ otropic hypogonadism, and diminished insulin, but elevated proinsulin. The abnormal cleavage of pro-opiomelano­ cortin (POMC) is likely the cause of obesity, due to faulty signaling to the melanocortin receptor family, including the melano­ cortin-4 receptor involved in appetite regulation. The abnormal processing and lack of ACTH lead to the secondary adrenal insufficiency with diminished cortisol synthesis and secretion. The hypogonadotropic hypogonadism is likely the result of impaired processing of GnRH (52,53). The effect of abnormal cleavage of the proinsulin molecule leads to a familial form of dominantly inherited hyperproinsu­ linemia (54,55). Since proinsulin has about 5% of the biological activity of insulin, large amounts of this molecule may compen­ sate for the lack of normal insulin and lead to minimal or no disturbances in glucose homeostasis under normal circumstances, but symptoms of glycemic dysfunction 7–12 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition manifest at times of physiological stress, such as pregnancy, resulting in gestational diabetes. A mutation in PC2 results in a dominant form of hyperproinsulinemia with more severe effects on diminishing insulin biological activity that can lead to a type 2 diabetes phenotype. These insulinopathies had been described in the 1980s without knowing the actual genetic basis (54,55). The PCSK-2 mutations cause greater deficiency in insulin action resulting in mild diabetes, but without obesity; whereas the PCSK-1/3 mutation is associated with obesity and low cortisol, generally not found in the PCSK-2 muta­ tions. The incidence of these mutations is not known; they appear to be very rare. GENETIC DEFECTS IN INSULIN ACTION: INSULIN RECEPTOR AND POSTRECEPTOR DEFECTS The insulin receptor gene is located on chromosome 19p13.2 and codes for a heterotetramer consisting of two extra­ cellular α subunits that bind insulin and two membrane-spanning β subunits with an intracellular tyrosine kinase domain that initiates a signaling cascade. Both subunits are encoded by the single gene, and mutations in this gene may cause
