Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


two membrane-spanning β subunits with an intracellular tyrosine kinase domain that initiates a signaling cascade. Both subunits are encoded by the single gene, and mutations in this gene may cause distinct syndromes depending on the severity of disrupted insulin signaling. As many as 0.1%–1% of the population is suspected of having some mutations that interfere with insulin action, but most can be overcome by increasing insulin secretion (56). Among mutations that impair insulin action and cause diabetes are three syndromes: Donohue syndrome (Leprechaunism), Rabson-Mendenhall syndrome, and insulin resistance syndrome type A. All are rare, and no data on the precise incidences of these syndromes are available. Donohue Syndrome Donohue syndrome is the most severe and rare form of insulin resistance and is due to near total absence of insulin receptor func­ tion. Affected individuals are characterized by severe intrauterine growth retardation, dysmorphic features, hyperinsulinemia, and abnormal glucose homeostasis. The abnormal glucose homeostasis is charac­ terized by hyperglycemia during and after feeding, due to virtual absence of insulin action, which is essential to enable periph­ eral glucose uptake and utilization, as well as hypoglycemia during fasting due to the absence of insulin action, which is necessary to enable storage of glucose as glycogen. The dysmorphic features consist of prominent eyes, low-set and posteriorly rotated ears, thick lips, thick skin with absence of subcutaneous fat, distended abdomen, and the appearance of enlarged genitalia in the male and cystic ovaries in the female. Birth weight is on the order of ≤2,000 g. Insulin concentrations in the blood are around 1,000 microIU/mL (6,000 pmol/mL), and C-peptide concentrations are markedly elevated. Exogenous insulin is ineffective; insulin-like growth factor-1 may have some benefits, but data are sparse and the indication is considered off-label for investigational use only. Death usually occurs within 1–2 years after birth (57). Rabson-Mendenhall Syndrome Patients with Rabson-Mendenhall syndrome have some residual insulin action and, therefore, somewhat different dysmorphic features, primarily involving abnormalities of teeth and nails, which are dysplastic and differ from those with Donohue syndrome. Pineal hyperplasia has been reported as well in Rabson- Mendenhall syndrome. Because the mutation is not as severe, these patients are not at risk of dying early and, later in life, manifest the classic signs of insulin resistance, including acanthosis nigri­ cans and hirsutism. They also manifest postprandial hyperglycemia and fasting hypoglycemia for reasons discussed for the Donohue syndrome. Those with severe forms of Rabson-Mendenhall syndrome
