Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


insulin resistance, including acanthosis nigri­ cans and hirsutism. They also manifest postprandial hyperglycemia and fasting hypoglycemia for reasons discussed for the Donohue syndrome. Those with severe forms of Rabson-Mendenhall syndrome may develop diabetic ketoac­ idosis because of a decline in later life in the ability to maintain high insulin concentrations required to overcome the insulin resistance. Although there is no absolute genotype-phenotype correlation, in general, insulin receptor mutations that retain some residual insulin binding correlate with prolonged survival (57). Insulin Resistance Syndrome Type A The insulin resistance syndrome type A is a relatively mild and more common form of insulin receptor mutation defined by the presence of hyperandrogenism, acanthosis nigricans, and marked insulin resistance with glucose intolerance and hyperinsulinemia. This syndrome was named type A because it occurs in younger females with virilization and accelerated growth, in whom it was believed that the receptor defect was primary, to contrast it from type B, a syndrome found in older females who have circulating antibodies to the insulin receptor. Given the focus on the meta­ bolic syndrome, in which polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a major feature and there are also variable degrees of insulin resistance, hyperinsulinemia, and carbo­ hydrate intolerance, it may be that the insulin resistance syndrome type A is not a distinct entity (58). ABNORMAL FUNCTION OF CILIA Alstrom syndrome is a rare disease with incidence of <1:100,000 births in European populations due to a mutation in the ALMS1 gene, located on chromo­ some 2p13. This gene codes for a protein that is believed to be involved in the orga­ nization of microtubules and transport of various materials, as well as the normal function of cilia. The protein plays a role in processes such as hearing, vision, the regulation of body weight, and normal function of the heart, lungs, kidneys, liver, and pancreatic insulin synthesis and secretion. Clinically, the diagnosis depends on the presence of the onset of retinal dystrophy with photodysphoria and either obesity or cardiomyopathy in an infant. During childhood, adolescence, and adulthood, additional phenotypes evolve, including insulin resistant diabetes, which manifests at around the time of puberty and is associated with acanthosis nigricans. The clinical manifestations of cardiomyopathy may not become apparent until adolescence. Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease develops during puberty. Chronic renal failure appears in about 25% of patients during the second decade of life. The differential diagnosis should include Bardet-Biedl syndrome, which has similar
