Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


liver disease develops during puberty. Chronic renal failure appears in about 25% of patients during the second decade of life. The differential diagnosis should include Bardet-Biedl syndrome, which has similar clinical features and, like Alstrom syndrome, is generally classified with the ciliopathies (18,59). Monogenic Forms of Diabetes 7–13 CONCLUDING REMARKS FOR MONOGENIC DIABETES Monogenic forms of diabetes are uncommon, ranging in prevalence from ~2%–3% of new cases of diabetes for MODY to 1:100,000 births for NDM and rarer still for the syndromic forms of diabetes. Defining their genetic bases has shed light on the complexity of pancreas formation and function and the regulation of insulin secretion. In turn, knowing the genes regulating these processes has enabled a clearer understanding of the nature of MODY and NDM, enabled rational treat­ ments based on the pharmacogenetics of the KATP channel, and demonstrated that the same genes are involved in the more common forms of what clinically appears to be type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Correct diagnosis requires molecular confirmation, which enables correct treatment, avoids unnecessary use of insulin or other inap­ propriate agents, and permits genetic counseling. As the ability to sequence genes at reduced costs becomes an established part of medical management (60,61), these discoveries are likely to have wide impact on practice. RESOURCES The following websites provide access to expert advice and assistance with possible mutation analysis in patients suspected of having monogenic forms of diabetes: §§ www.diabetesgenes.org, an information resource on genetic types of diabetes located in the United Kingdom at the University of Exeter §§ www.kovlerdiabetescenter.org/portfolio/ monogenic-diabetes-registry-genetics- of-diabetes-studies, a monogenic diabetes registry located in the United States at the University of Chicago §§ www.genetests.org, a compendium of sites and locations of mutational analysis performed for research or via CLIA-certified laboratories GENETIC LIPODYSTROPHIES A classification of the genetic lipodystro­ phies is presented in Table 7.3. Detailed discussion of the most common types of genetic lipodystrophies that predispose patients to diabetes follows the listing and notations in Table 7.3. EPIDEMIOLOGY Overall, based on literature reports of fewer than 2,000 patients, the estimated prevalence of genetic lipodystrophies may be less than 1 in a million. The auto­ somal recessive congenital generalized lipodystrophy (CGL) has been reported in about 300–500 patients, with clustering of patients reported from Lebanon and Brazil where there is increased prevalence of consanguinity. The autosomal dominant familial partial lipodystrophy (FPL) has been reported in ~500–1,000 patients. Affected
