Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


with clustering of patients reported from Lebanon and Brazil where there is increased prevalence of consanguinity. The autosomal dominant familial partial lipodystrophy (FPL) has been reported in ~500–1,000 patients. Affected females are recognized easily and, thus, are reported more often than males. Dutour et al. (62) studied 100 consecutive patients from Marseille, France, with the metabolic syndrome presenting with obesity, diabetes, or thyroid disorders and identified only one male and one female patient with missense mutations in the lamin A/C (LMNA) gene. Of these, only the female patient was described to have slight lipoatrophy. Thus, the prevalence of FPL could be ~1% among those presenting with the metabolic syndrome to a tertiary care hospital. Urbanek et al. (63) deter­ mined variants in LMNA in 43 women presenting with PCOS and identified two missense novel variants. None of the variants previously found in patients with FPL were observed. Further analysis of these variants in a case-control study of 624 women with PCOS and 544 controls failed to show any statistically significant association with PCOS. Thus, the authors concluded that genetic variation in LMNA was not a major contributor to the etiology of PCOS. Thus, precise estimates for popula­ tion prevalence of these monogenic syndromes are not available. However, it is expected that as investigators collect data from next generation, whole genome, or exome sequencing in healthy controls and patients with diabetes, hypertriglyceridemia, and PCOS, better estimates of the prevalences of these disorders will emerge. The population prevalence of autosomal recessive syndromes may be estimated based on the frequency of heterozygous vari­ ants in candidate genes. Such studies are underway; however, most subjects participating in these consortia are of European origin. Enrollment of many subjects from all over the world will be required to determine the world­ wide prevalence of these monogenic syndromes. AUTOSOMAL RECESSIVE LIPODYSTROPHIES Congenital Generalized Lipodystrophy In 1954, Berardinelli from Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, reported two boys (2 and 6 years old) with an undiagnosed endocrine-met­ abolic syndrome presenting with marked hepatosplenomegaly, acromegaloid gigan­ tism, fatty liver, and hyperlipidemia (64). In 1959, Seip reported a detailed descrip­ tion of the phenotype of three additional patients and highlighted the onset of generalized lipodystrophy from birth, and thus, they were recognized as having CGL (65). The diagnosis of CGL is usually made at birth or soon thereafter. However, some patients may have a normal appearance at birth and subsequently lose body
