Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


as having CGL (65). The diagnosis of CGL is usually made at birth or soon thereafter. However, some patients may have a normal appearance at birth and subsequently lose body fat. Overall, approximately 300–500 cases of this syndrome have been reported thus far (66,67,68). Clusters of cases have been reported from Brazil and Lebanon from regions where there is an increased prev­ alence of consanguinity (69,70). Based on the assumption that only one-quarter of the actual number of cases may be reported in the literature, the estimated prevalence of CGL is about 1 in 10 million (68). Patients with CGL have the appearance of extreme muscularity at birth due to near complete absence of adipose tissue in the body. They are known to grow at 7–14 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition an accelerated rate during early child­ hood, and the bone age may be greater than the chronological age at this time (71,72). They have a markedly increased appetite and slight enlargement of the hands, feet, and mandible, termed acro­ megaloid features. Nearly all patients have an umbilical prominence (71,73). Acanthosis nigricans is noted later during childhood or adolescence (71) and can be very severe, involving extensive areas of the body. Besides the typical neck, axillae, and groin regions, acanthosis nigricans can also affect the trunk, hands, knees, elbows, and ankles. Liver enlarge­ ment due to hepatic steatosis is usually noticed during infancy. A few patients develop cirrhosis and its complications later on in life (74,75), and many patients develop splenic enlargement. In females, mild hirsutism, clitoromegaly, and irreg­ ular menstrual periods are common, and some present with primary or secondary amenorrhea and polycystic ovaries. Some patients have hypertrophic cardio­ myopathy and mild mental retardation (76,77). TABLE 7.3. Classification, Clinical Features, and Pathogenetic and Molecular Bases of Genetic Lipodystrophies With Predisposition to Diabetes SYNDROME SUBTYPES (GENE) OMIM NUMBER* KEY CLINICAL FEATURES MOLECULAR BASIS I. Autosomal recessive lipodystrophies Congenital generalized lipodystrophy (CGL)† CGL1 (AGPAT2) 608594 Lack of metabolically active adipose tissue since birth. AGPATs are key enzymes for synthesis of triglyceride and phospholipids. AGPAT2 isoform is highly expressed in adipose tissue. CGL2 (BSCL2) 269700 Lack of both metabolically active and mechanical adipose tissue since birth, mild mental retardation, cardiomyopathy. BSCL2 encodes seipin, which appears to play a role in lipid droplet formation and in adipocyte differentiation. CGL3 (CAV1) 612526 Single patient reported. Extreme lack of body fat, short stature, and vitamin
