Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


seipin, which appears to play a role in lipid droplet formation and in adipocyte differentiation. CGL3 (CAV1) 612526 Single patient reported. Extreme lack of body fat, short stature, and vitamin D resistance. Caveolin-1 is an integral component of caveolae, present on adipocyte membranes. Caveolin-1 binds fatty acids and translocates them to lipid droplets. CGL4 (PTRF) 613327 Extreme lack of body fat, congenital myopathy, pyloric stenosis, and cardiomyopathy. PTRF (also known as cavin) is involved in biogenesis of caveolae and regulates expression of caveolin-1 and -3. Mandibuloacral dysplasia (MAD)† Type A (LMNA) 248370 Skeletal anomalies, loss of subcutaneous fat from the extremities and trunk. Defective lamins A and C may disrupt nuclear function, resulting in death of adipocytes and skeletal tissue. Type B (ZMPSTE24) 608612 Skeletal anomalies, generalized loss of fat, premature renal failure, progeroid features. Zinc metalloproteinase is critical for posttranslational processing of prelamin A to its mature form, lamin A. Accumulation of farnesylated prelamin A may be toxic and disrupt nuclear function in several tissues. Familial partial lipodystrophy (FPL) FPLD5 (CIDEC) 615238 Single patient reported. Histopathology of subcutaneous fat showed multilocular, small lipid droplets in adipocytes. II. Autosomal dominant lipodystrophies Familial partial lipodystrophy (FPL) FPLD1, Kobberling variety (unknown) NA Loss of subcutaneous fat from the extremities. Molecular basis is unknown. FPLD2, Dunnigan variety (LMNA) 151660 Loss of subcutaneous fat from the extremities and trunk (sparing the face and neck) at puberty. LMNA encodes nuclear lamina proteins, lamins A and C. Defective lamins A and C may disrupt nuclear function, resulting in death of adipocytes. FPLD3 (PPARG) 604367 Loss of subcutaneous fat from the distal extremities. PPARγ is essential for adipogenesis. Dominant negative PPARγ mutations may inhibit adipocyte differentiation. FPLD4 (PLIN1) 613877 Loss of subcutaneous fat from the extremities. Perilipin is an integral component of lipid droplet membranes. Histology revealed small adipocytes with increased fibrosis of adipose tissue. (AKT2) NA Single family reported with loss of subcutaneous fat from the extremities. AKT2 is involved in adipocyte differentiation and downstream insulin receptor signaling. Atypical progeroid syndrome (LMNA) NA Variable loss of subcutaneous fat. Different heterozygous mutations in LMNA cause partial or generalized lipodystrophy. SHORT syndrome (PIK3R1) 269880 Short stature, Hyperextensibility or inguinal hernia, Ocular depression, Rieger anomaly, and Teething delay PIK3R1 encodes the p85α regulatory unit of phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase, which is known to play a role in insulin signaling. AGPAT, 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase; AKT2, v-AKT murine thymoma oncogene homolog 2; BSCL2,
