Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


encodes the p85α regulatory unit of phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase, which is known to play a role in insulin signaling. AGPAT, 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase; AKT2, v-AKT murine thymoma oncogene homolog 2; BSCL2, Berardinelli-Seip congenital lipodystrophy 2; CAV1, caveolin-1; CGL, congenital generalized lipodystrophy; CIDEC, cell death-inducing DNA fragmentation factor a-like effector c; FPLD, familial partial lipodystrophy; LMNA, lamin A/C; NA, not applicable; PLIN1, perilipin 1; PPAR, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor; PTRF, polymerase I and transcript release factor. * The Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM) is an online catalog of human genes and genetic disorders. OMIM can be accessed at omim.org. † Additional rare types for which the genetic bases are not known are not included. SOURCE: Reference 67, copyright © 2011 Endocrine Society, adapted with permission. Monogenic Forms of Diabetes 7–15 CGL is characterized by high levels of fasting and postprandial insulin, noted very early in life (71). This extreme hyperinsulinemia suggests severe insulin resistance in childhood. Patients also have extreme hypertriglyceridemia, which can predispose them to recurrent episodes of acute pancreatitis (73). The levels of HDL cholesterol also tend to be low. The onset of diabetes usually occurs during the pubertal years; however, diabetes has been reported as early as 6 weeks of life. In some patients, diabetes occurs during the neonatal period and is subsequently followed by a euglycemic period; they again develop diabetes after puberty. Garg et al. (78) reported marked amyloidosis of pancreatic islets and beta cell atrophy on autopsy of a young adult female with CGL (Figure 7.4). Thus, it appears that prolonged and extreme insulin resistance from birth causes amyloidosis and beta cell death due to similar mechanisms involved in patients with type 2 diabetes. Diabetes is challenging to manage in CGL patients and may require extremely high doses of insulin to control hyperglycemia (79). Patients are reportedly resistant to ketosis due to endogenous hyperinsu­ linemia. Since patients with CGL have extreme paucity of body fat, they have markedly low levels of serum adipocy­ tokines, such as leptin and adiponectin (80,81). Extreme hypoleptinemia may contribute to excessive appetite and meta­ bolic complications in patients with CGL. At this time, four distinct genetic varieties of CGL are known. However, type 1 and type 2 are the most common subtypes of CGL. The first locus for CGL was discovered on chromosome 9q34 using a genome-wide linkage analysis approach by Garg et al. (82). The authors also reported genetic heterogeneity
