Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


subtypes of CGL. The first locus for CGL was discovered on chromosome 9q34 using a genome-wide linkage analysis approach by Garg et al. (82). The authors also reported genetic heterogeneity and a possibility of another locus. Subsequently, the second locus was found on chromosome 11q13 (70). By posi­ tional cloning of the 9q34 region, Agarwal et al. (83) identified mutations in the 1-acyl­ glycerol-3-phosphate-O-acyltransferase 2 (AGPAT2) gene in patients with CGL type 1. Mutations in a new gene called Berardinelli- Seip Congenital Lipodystrophy 2 (BSCL2) on chromosome 11q13 were reported by Magre et al. (70). Two new genes have been reported to be linked to CGL. A homo­ zygous nonsense mutation in caveolin-1 (CAV1) has been reported in a single patient with CGL type 3 (84). CGL type 4 has been linked to mutations in polymerase I and transcript release factor (PTRF) (85). CGL Type 1: AGPAT2 Mutations. Besides the clinical features mentioned above, patients with CGL type 1 have an increased prevalence of focal lytic lesions in the appendicular skeleton. Metabolically active adipose tissue located in most subcutaneous areas, intra-abdominal and intrathoracic regions, and bone marrow is totally deficient, but mechanical adipose tissue, which is located in the palms, soles, under the scalp, orbital, and periartic­ ular regions, is spared (Figure 7.5A–C) (73,86,87). There are 11 distinct isoforms of AGPATs, the key enzymes belonging to the acyl­ transferase family, which play a critical role in the biosynthesis of triglycerides and phospholipids in cells (Figure 7.6) (83,88). The AGPATs acylate lysophos­ phatidic acid (1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate) to phosphatidic acid (1, 2 diacylglycer­ ol-3-phosphate). The AGPAT2 isoform is highly expressed in the adipose tissue. It is also expressed in the liver and skeletal muscle, but at lower levels. Thus, AGPAT2 deficiency may cause lipodystrophy by lack of triglyceride biosynthesis in the adipocytes or by lack of phospholipid synthesis, which may affect adipocyte function. Most patients harbor null mutations with no enzymatic activity demonstrable in vitro. However, some compound heterozygotes have a null and a missense mutation (with some residual enzymatic activity), and a few have homozygous missense mutations. However, the type of mutation does not determine the severity of lipodystrophy, as all the patients have near complete loss of adipose tissue. Nearly all patients of African origin harbor the founder mutation, c.589-2A>G (p.Val197Glufs*32), on one or both alleles (77). CGL Type 2: BSCL2 Mutations. Patients with CGL type 2 display an increased prevalence
