Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


patients of African origin harbor the founder mutation, c.589-2A>G (p.Val197Glufs*32), on one or both alleles (77). CGL Type 2: BSCL2 Mutations. Patients with CGL type 2 display an increased prevalence of cardiomyopathy and mild mental retardation (76,77). Both metaboli­ cally active and mechanical adipose tissue are lacking in CGL type 2 patients (Figure 7.5D–F) (86,87). Serum leptin levels are lower in patients with CGL type 2 than type 1, but serum adiponectin levels are higher (81); the reason for this observation is not clear. BSCL2 encodes a 398 amino acid trans­ membrane protein called seipin (70). Research suggests a role for seipin in lipid droplet formation and in adipocyte FIGURE 7.4. Severe Islet Amyloidosis in Congenital Generalized Lipodystrophy (A) Hematoxylin and eosin stain showing marked hyaline deposits in the islet of Langerhans. The hyaline deposits stained red on Congo red staining and showed apple-green birefringence on polarization diagnostic of amyloid. (B) Immunostaining with anti-amylin antibody showing intense staining for amylin in an islet with amyloidosis. (C) Immunostaining with anti-insulin antibody showing marked reduction of beta cells in an islet with amyloidosis. (D) Immunostaining with anti-glucagon antibody showing presence of alpha cells in an islet with amyloidosis. The patient had congenital generalized lipodystrophy (CGL) type 1, and histopathology was studied on autopsy. SOURCE: Reference 78, copyright © 1996 American Diabetes Association, reprinted with permission D B A C 7–16 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition FIGURE 7.5. Clinical Features of Patients With Congenital Generalized Lipodystrophy Types 1 and 2 (A) Anterior view of a 19-year-old female of African American origin with congenital generalized lipodystrophy type 1, showing generalized lack of fat, extreme muscularity, and acromegaloid features. She developed diabetes at age 14 years. Acanthosis nigricans was present in the neck, axillae, and groin. She had a homozygous splice site mutation (c.589-2A>G; p.Val197Glufs*32) in AGPAT2. (B) Palms of the patient shown in panel A showing normal subcutaneous fat. (C) Soles of the patient shown in panel A showing normal subcutaneous fat. (D) Anterior view of an 8-year-old boy from Spain with congenital generalized lipodystrophy type 2, showing generalized lack of fat and extreme muscularity. Only mild acanthosis nigricans was present in the neck and axillae. He had compound heterozygous mutations in BSCL2: c.193delCinsGGA (p.Pro65Glyfs*28) and c.325_326insA (p.Thr109Asnfs*5). (E) The palms of the patient shown in panel D showing loss of subcutaneous fat. (F) Soles of the patient shown in panel D showing loss
