Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


(p.Pro65Glyfs*28) and c.325_326insA (p.Thr109Asnfs*5). (E) The palms of the patient shown in panel D showing loss of subcutaneous fat. (F) Soles of the patient shown in panel D showing loss of subcutaneous fat. SOURCE: Panel A, Reference 87, copyright © 2009 Elsevier B.V., reprinted with permission. Panels B-F, A. Garg, personal communication. differentiation (89,90). Studies with the seipin homolog in yeast suggest that it may play a role in fusion of lipid droplets (Figure 7.6). Nearly all BSCL2 mutations reported in patients with CGL type 2 are null. CGL Type 3: Caveolin-1 Mutation. CGL type 3 has only been reported in a Brazilian girl who had short stature and presumed vitamin D resistance (84). This patient also had hepatospleno­ megaly with hepatic steatosis and onset of diabetes at age 13 years. Additionally, she had acanthosis nigricans and severe hypertriglyceridemia. She had primary amenorrhea at age 20 years and func­ tional megaesophagus. The patient had well-preserved mechanical and bone marrow fat. Caveolin-1 is expressed in abundance in caveolae, specialized microdomains on cell membranes of adipocytes (91). Caveolae bring phospholipids and other lipid material from outside to inside the cell, and they may contribute this material to lipid droplets. Thus, caveolin-1 mutation may cause lipodystrophy due to defective lipid droplet formation (Figure 7.6). CGL Type 4: PTRF Mutations. CGL type 4 due to PTRF mutations has been reported in approximately 20 patients (85,92,93). These patients have a peculiar phenotype besides having CGL. They manifest developmental delay, as well as congenital myopathy with percussion-in­ duced myoedema, pyloric stenosis, and atlantoaxial instability (94,95). Patients with CGL type 4 also have increased levels of creatine kinase in the serum, sugges­ tive of myopathy. These patients are prone to developing serious arrhythmias, such as catecholaminergic polymor­ phic ventricular tachycardia, prolonged QT interval, and sudden death (92,93). Patients have well-preserved mechanical and bone marrow fat. PTRF, also known as cavin, plays a critical role in the biogen­ esis of caveolae. PTRF regulates the expression of caveolin-1 and -3 and may also contribute to lipid droplet formation (Figure 7.6) (85). Molecular Diagnosis. Patients with CGL should be easily diagnosed at birth or soon thereafter by pediatricians. The two main types of CGL can be distinguished based upon their clinical features. CGL type 4 has a distinct phenotype of myop­ athy. Molecular diagnosis at research laboratories is available for confirmation. Molecular diagnosis may be helpful for understanding the risk
