Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


clinical features. CGL type 4 has a distinct phenotype of myop­ athy. Molecular diagnosis at research laboratories is available for confirmation. Molecular diagnosis may be helpful for understanding the risk of having another child with CGL and can also be used for prenatal screening. Besides patients with known genotypes, a few patients with CGL do not have mutations in any of the four known loci, and thus, there may be novel genes to be discovered for CGL. Differential Diagnosis. CGL should be differentiated from acquired general­ ized lipodystrophy, Donohue syndrome, atypical Werner syndrome, generalized lipodystrophy due to LMNA mutations, and neonatal progeroid syndrome. Monogenic Forms of Diabetes 7–17 Mandibuloacral Dysplasia Associated Lipodystrophy Mandibuloacral dysplasia (MAD) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder reported in about 40 patients so far. It is characterized by hypoplasia of the mandible and clavi­ cles, as well as acro-osteolysis (resorption of the terminal phalanges) (96,97). Other clinical features include delayed closure of cranial sutures, joint contractures, mottled cutaneous pigmentation, and short stature. Patients also show “progeroid features,” such as bird-like faces, high-pitched voice, skin atrophy, pigmentation, alopecia, and nail dysplasia. Patients with MAD either have partial loss of subcutaneous fat from the extremities (type A) due to mutations in LMNA (97) or more generalized loss of subcutaneous fat involving the face, trunk, and extremities (type B) due to mutations in zinc metalloproteinase (ZMPSTE24), which is involved in posttranslational processing of prelamin A to mature lamin A (98). Hyperinsulinemia, insulin resistance, impaired glucose tolerance, diabetes, and hyperlipidemia have been reported but are usually mild to moderate in severity (96). Familial Partial Lipodystrophy Due to CIDEC Mutation (FPLD5) A 19-year-old Ecuadorian girl with auto­ somal recessive FPL has been reported to harbor a homozygous missense mutation in cell death-inducing DNA fragmentation factor a-like effector c (CIDEC) (99). She developed diabetic ketoacidosis at age 14 years and also had hypertriglyceridemia and hypertension. On biopsy of subcuta­ neous fat, multilocular, small lipid droplets were reported in adipocytes consistent with the findings in a mouse model of FPL (99,100). AUTOSOMAL DOMINANT LIPODYSTROPHIES Familial Partial Lipodystrophies The characteristic clinical feature of patients with FPL is the loss of body fat from the upper and lower extremities, as well as in some patients, from the truncal region (101,102). Most patients follow an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern. The phenotype can be easily recognized in affected women; however, recognition of men affected with FPL is
