Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


from the truncal region (101,102). Most patients follow an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern. The phenotype can be easily recognized in affected women; however, recognition of men affected with FPL is difficult because even some normal healthy men also appear very muscular and have markedly low subcutaneous fat. Therefore, most of the ascertainment of affected patients and pedigrees has been through female probands. The diagnosis should be suspected in patients who show signs of insulin resistance early in life manifested by acanthosis nigricans or PCOS and early onset of diabetes and severe hyper­ triglyceridemia. Patients who have these manifestations but do not have generalized obesity should be suspected to have FPL, and physicians should examine for fat loss from the extremities, particularly from the gluteal region. Many patients gain fat in nonlipodystrophic regions, such as the face, under the chin, posteriorly in the neck resulting in a dorsocervical hump, and in the intra-abdominal region. Some women also gain fat in the perineal region, espe­ cially in the labia majora and pubic region. Several distinct subtypes of FPL have been reported, and the molecular genetic bases of four distinct subtypes are known. Type 1: Kobberling Variety (FPLD1). After the original description by Dunnigan et al. (101), Kobberling et al. (102) from Germany reported a distinct phenotype of FPL. The Kobberling variety is less common and has been reported in only two small pedigrees and four sporadic cases (102,103,104). The age of onset of lipodystrophy and the mode of inheritance are not clear. On the basis of clinical findings, the loss of adipose tissue in the Kobberling variety is restricted to extremi­ ties only. Patients have normal amounts of fat in the face area and may have normal, or even excess, subcutaneous fat in the truncal area. The genetic basis for this particular variety is unknown. FIGURE 7.6. Lipid Droplet Formation in Adipocytes Lipid droplets (LD) are organelles that store triglycerides (TG) intracellularly. In the adipocytes, they form as budding vesicles at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) that fuse together to form one large LD. Many proteins, such as CIDEC (shown in blue triangles), seipin (pink squares), and perilipin 1 (green circles), are present on the LD membrane. CIDEC and seipin may be involved in fusion of LDs to form a larger LD, whereas perilipin 1 is essential for lipid storage and hormone-mediated lipolysis. Caveolae are formed from lipid rafts on the cell surface,
