Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


in fusion of LDs to form a larger LD, whereas perilipin 1 is essential for lipid storage and hormone-mediated lipolysis. Caveolae are formed from lipid rafts on the cell surface, which include cholesterol (yellow symbols), glycosphingolipids (green symbols), and caveolin-1 (black hairpin-like symbols). Endocytosis of caveolae forms caveolin vesicles that may directly merge with lipid droplets and thus translocate fatty acids to LDs. PTRF controls expression of caveolin-1 and -3. The classic and alternative pathways involved in the biosynthesis of TG are shown inside the lipid droplet. In the adipose tissue, TG synthesis requires glycerol-3-phos­ phate as the initial substrate (classical pathway), whereas in the small intestine, synthesis of TG can occur via an alternative pathway using monoacylglycerol (MAG) as the initial substrate. Acylation of glycerol-3-phosphate using fatty acyl coenzyme A (FA-CoA) at the sn-1 position is catalyzed by glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferases (GPATs), resulting in the formation of 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate or lysophosphatidic acid (LPA). LPA is then acylated at the sn-2 position by AGPATs to yield phosphatidic acid (PA). Removal of phosphate group from PA by PA phosphatases (PAP) produces diacylglycerol (DAG). Further acylation of DAG at the sn-3 position by DAG acyltransferases (DGATs) finally produces TG. Lamin A/C are integral components of nuclear lamina (shown in blue color) and interact with nuclear membrane proteins, as well as chromatin. Zinc metalloproteinase (ZMPSTE24) is critical for posttranslational processing of prelamin A to its mature form, lamin A. SOURCE: Reference 87, copyright © 2009 Elsevier B.V., adapted with permission; and Reference 91, copyright © 2008 Endocrine Society, reprinted with permission 7–18 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition Type 2: Dunnigan Variety Associated With LMNA Mutations (FPLD2). FPL type 2, the Dunnigan variety (FPLD), was initially described in an abstract form by Ozer et al. (105), who reported a 52-year-old woman and several members of her family with “fat neck syndrome” but loss of subcutaneous fat from the limbs. All affected patients had hypertriglyceri­ demia, and some had impaired glucose tolerance and diabetes. Subsequently, Dunnigan et al. (101) provided a detailed phenotypic description of two families with an autosomal dominant variety of FPL. Initial reports of this syndrome were restricted to the description of affected females only, possibly because recog­ nition of affected males was difficult. It was also thought that the syndrome may have an X-linked dominant inheritance pattern with lethality in hemizygous males (103). Ascertainment of additional pedigrees subsequently showed that it clearly followed
