Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


It was also thought that the syndrome may have an X-linked dominant inheritance pattern with lethality in hemizygous males (103). Ascertainment of additional pedigrees subsequently showed that it clearly followed an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern (106). Since the orig­ inal description, approximately 500–1,000 patients may have been reported with FPLD. Most are of European origin, but other ethnicities have been reported to have FPLD, such as Asian Indians and African American patients. The onset of FPLD occurs in late child­ hood or at puberty. Therefore, children at birth have normal body fat distribution. Even as young children, their appear­ ance is completely normal, but during late childhood or with onset of puberty, patients start losing subcutaneous fat in the upper and lower extremities, including the gluteal region. At the same time, they start gaining subcutaneous fat in nonli­ podystrophic regions, such as the face, neck, and in the intra-abdominal region (Figure 7.7A) (107). Acanthosis nigricans also appears at the time of puberty and approximately one-third of women affected with FPLD have irregular periods, oligoamenorrhea, and hirsutism sugges­ tive of PCOS (108). Characterization of the phenotype by whole body magnetic resonance imaging has revealed marked loss of subcutaneous fat from the extrem­ ities but preservation of intermuscular fat present in between the muscle fascia (109). Excess accumulation of fat is seen in the intra-abdominal and intrathoracic regions as well. Some patients develop a round face, dorsocervical hump, double chin, and enlargement of supraclavic­ ular fat pads, and these patients are mistaken as having Cushing’s syndrome. Although the data are limited, it appears that affected women are more severely affected by metabolic derangements than affected males (108,110). The prev­ alence of diabetes in affected women is approximately 50% compared to 20% in the affected men (108). Women also show extreme hypertriglyceridemia and low levels of HDL cholesterol and increased prevalence of coronary heart disease. Diabetes usually develops after the second decade of life, and the risk factors for development of diabetes include multiparity and excess fat deposition in the nonlipodystrophic regions, such as the chin. Autopsy study in a patient revealed severe amyloidosis of pancreatic islets, which may be related to the onset of hyperglycemia and diabetes in patients with FPLD (111). Some patients with FPLD also develop cardiomyopathies, which manifest both as cardiac conduction system disturbances resulting in atrial fibrillation requiring pacemaker implan­ tation and premature congestive heart failure requiring cardiac
