Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


Some patients with FPLD also develop cardiomyopathies, which manifest both as cardiac conduction system disturbances resulting in atrial fibrillation requiring pacemaker implan­ tation and premature congestive heart failure requiring cardiac transplantation (112,113). Using a genome-wide linkage analysis approach, Peters et al. (106) reported the FPLD locus on chromosome 1q21-22 in five large informative pedigrees. Subsequently, Cao and Hegele (114) screened for candidate genes in the FIGURE 7.7. Clinical Features of Patients With Familial Partial Lipodystrophy (A) A 28-year-old Hispanic woman with familial partial lipodystrophy, Dunnigan variety (FPL, type 2) due to heterozy­ gous missense mutation in the LMNA gene. She had loss of fat from the extremities and trunk beginning at puberty and had excess fat accumulation in the face, neck, and perineal region. She had acanthosis nigricans in the axillae and groins. (B) A 64-year-old white woman with familial partial lipodystrophy (FPL, type 3) due to heterozygous missense mutation in PPARG. She had loss of fat from the face, extremities and trunk and had excess fat accumula­ tion in the truncal region. (C) A 48-year-old white woman with familial partial lipodystrophy (FPL, unknown variety). She had loss of fat from the extremities but had excess fat accumulation in the face, neck, and truncal region. SOURCE: Panel A, Reference 107, copyright © 2012 McGraw Hill, reprinted with permission. Panel B, Reference 119, copyright © 2002 Endocrine Society, reprinted with permission. Panel C, A. Garg, personal communication. Monogenic Forms of Diabetes 7–19 chromosome 1q21 region and reported a single missense mutation, p.Arg482Gln in LMNA in a Canadian pedigree. Since then, several missense mutations in LMNA have been reported in patients with FPLD, most of them affecting the C-terminal amino acids (115,116,117). Mutations in LMNA interestingly have also been reported in various other disor­ ders, such as idiopathic cardiomyopathy, muscular dystrophies, Hutchison-Gilford Progeria syndrome, Charcot-Marie-Tooth neuropathy, MAD, and atypical progeroid syndrome (117). Some patients with FPLD harboring LMNA mutations show features of overlap syndrome and have some mild muscular dystrophy, as well as cardiac conduction system disturbances (112,113). Thus, LMNA mutations may also cause a multisystem dystrophy syndrome that can affect various tissues, including adipose, cardiac, skeletal muscle, nerve, cutaneous, and skeletal tissue (112). How specific mutations in LMNA cause adipocyte loss from mainly extremities remains unknown. Disruption of interac­ tions of lamins A and C with chromatin or other nuclear lamina proteins during the cell division may lead to premature cell
