Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


from mainly extremities remains unknown. Disruption of interac­ tions of lamins A and C with chromatin or other nuclear lamina proteins during the cell division may lead to premature cell death or apoptosis of adipocytes. The accumulation of excess fat in nonli­ podystropic regions may be a secondary phenomenon. Most missense mutations in FPLD accu­ mulate in or affect exon 8 of LMNA, which encodes the globular C-terminal (tail) portion of the protein. Particularly, the argi­ nine residue at position 482 seems to be a hot spot, and about 75% of patients with FPLD have a substitution of this residue to tryptophan, glutamine, or leucine (117). Some patients who have mutations in exon 11, which can only affect lamin A and not lamin C, seem to have a milder, atypical FPLD (118). More importantly, patients who have mutations in exon 1 or nearby exons affecting the amino terminal residues have associated cardiomyop­ athy (112,113). Some of these patients also show evidence of mild muscular dystrophy with slightly increased serum creatine kinase levels. In some families, these mutations lead to severe congestive heart failure in the third decade, resulting in a need for cardiac transplantation. By clinical examination, it is difficult to diagnose affected men, as well as prepubertal children, with FPLD. Therefore, molecular diagnosis may be helpful in characterizing these patients. Furthermore, genotyping for mutations which are also associated with cardiomy­ opathies may be particularly important for predicting prognosis. Type 3: FPL Associated With PPARG Mutations (FPLD3). Using a candidate gene approach, Agarwal and Garg (119) identified a heterozygous missense muta­ tion, p.Arg397Cys, in PPARG, a gene that encodes peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ), in a 64-year-old woman who presented with diabetes, hypertriglyceridemia, hypertension, and hirsutism. She also had lipodystrophy of the face and extremities that was noticed much later in life (Figure 7.7B). Since then, approximately 30 patients with FPL due to PPARG mutations have been reported (120). These patients manifest insulin resistance with diabetes, hypertension, and hypertriglyceridemia. The age of onset of this variety of lipodystrophy is not precisely known but may range from the second decade or later. Also, the pattern of progression of fat loss is not very clear. Patients have more fat loss from the distal extremities than from the proximal extremities. Patients have variable loss of fat from the face, and some patients have normal or increased fat on the face. Given the role
