Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


distal extremities than from the proximal extremities. Patients have variable loss of fat from the face, and some patients have normal or increased fat on the face. Given the role of PPARγ as a transcription factor in adipogenesis and adipocyte differen­ tiation, mutations in PPARG may result in lipodystrophy due to defective differ­ entiation of adipocytes. PPARG is highly expressed in adipose tissue; however, why patients with PPARG mutations develop lipodystrophy of the extremities and not other adipose tissue depots is not clear. Type 4: FPL Associated With PLIN1 Mutation (FPLD4). Gandotra et al. (121) reported two heterozygous frameshift mutations in PLIN1 (which encodes peri­ lipin 1) in five patients from three families with FPL of European origin. All of them had fatty liver, hypertriglyceridemia, and hyperinsulinemia. Three patients had diabetes, and four had reduced levels of HDL cholesterol. Lipodystrophy was most striking in the lower limbs and femoro­ gluteal depots. Acanthosis nigricans was present in all probands, and two patients also had a cushingoid appearance. The investigators reported the histopathology of subcutaneous adipose tissue from four patients with PLIN1 mutations, revealing reduced size of adipocytes and increased macrophage infiltration and adipose tissue fibrosis. Upon overexpression of PLIN1 in 3T3-L1 preadipocytes, the investigators noted that mutant perilipin 1 resulted in smaller lipid droplets compared to the wild type perilipin 1 (121). Perilipin 1 is the most abundant protein coating lipid droplets in adipocytes (122). It is essential for formation and maturation of lipid drop­ lets and storage of triglycerides, as well as release of fatty acids from these lipid droplets. Mutant forms of perilipin 1 fail to bind to AB-hydrolase-containing 5, which results in constitutive coactivation of adipose triglyceride lipase and increased basal lipolysis (123). Type AKT2: FPL Associated With AKT2 Mutations. George et al. (124) reported a heterozygous missense mutation, p.Arg274His, in AKT2 in four subjects from a family who presented with insulin resistance and diabetes. The proband, a 35-year-old Caucasian female, developed diabetes at age 30 years, whereas her affected mother and grandmother devel­ oped diabetes during their late thirties. A maternal uncle, a middle-aged person, had no diabetes but had hyperinsulinemia. Three of the four affected subjects had hypertension. The proband also had loss of subcutaneous fat from the extremities (Stephen O’Rahilly, personal communi­ cation). However, the precise pattern of subcutaneous fat loss is not clear. AKT2 is a phosphoinositide-dependent serine/ threonine kinase and is also known
