Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


from the extremities (Stephen O’Rahilly, personal communi­ cation). However, the precise pattern of subcutaneous fat loss is not clear. AKT2 is a phosphoinositide-dependent serine/ threonine kinase and is also known as protein kinase B. AKT2 is predominantly expressed in insulin sensitive tissues. Overexpression of the mutant form, p.Arg274His, in 3T3-L1 mouse preadipo­ cytes resulted in markedly reduced lipid 7–20 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition accumulation. Previously, a mouse model of AKT2 deficiency showed features of lipodystrophy, insulin resistance, and diabetes with increasing age (125). Thus, taken together, lipodystrophy in patients with AKT2 mutations may be related to reduced adipocyte differentiation and may be likely due to dysfunctional insulin signaling at the postreceptor level. Other Types of FPL. The four known FPL genes are not able to explain the genetic basis of all FPL patients, and additional loci are likely to be discovered (Figure 7.7C) (119,126). In depth characterization of the clinical phenotype related to the pattern of fat loss in FPL patients with mutations in different genes may be helpful in iden­ tification of different phenotypes without resorting to molecular diagnosis. Differential Diagnosis. FPL should be differentiated from conditions such as Cushing’s syndrome, truncal obesity, multiple symmetric lipomatosis, and acquired generalized lipodystrophy, as well as highly active antiretroviral thera­ py-induced lipodystrophy in HIV-infected patients. Atypical Progeroid Syndrome Due to LMNA Mutations About 30 patients have been reported to have partial or generalized lipodystrophy, insulin resistant diabetes, and progeroid features with missense mutations in LMNA (127). Additional clinical features include mottling, pigmentations and sclerosis of skin, liver steatosis, cardio­ myopathy, short stature, cardiac valvular abnormalities, and deafness. Particularly striking is the lack of breast tissue in many females. Some women also develop premature ovarian failure. These patients are also predisposed to developing prema­ ture diabetes. Short Stature, Hyperextensibility of Joints and/or Inguinal Hernia, Ocular Depression, Reiger Anomaly, and Teething Delay (SHORT) Syndrome A total of 30 patients have been reported with SHORT syndrome. The pedigrees reveal both autosomal recessive (128,129) and dominant (130,131,132) modes of transmission (128,129,130). Reiger anomaly consists of eye abnormalities, such as iris hypoplasia, Schwalbe ring, iridocorneal synechiae, micro- or mega­ locornea, and dental anomalies, such as hypodontia, microdontia, enamel hypo­ plasia, and atypical teeth. Other clinical features include intrauterine growth retar­ dation, failure to thrive, delayed speech development, small head circumference, bilateral clinodactyly, and sensorineural hearing loss. Different patterns of fat loss have been reported. In many
