Chapter 7: Monogenic Forms of Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, insulin, patients, mutations, syndrome, type, lipodystrophy, gene, mutation, fat, genetic, mody, reported, neonatal, clinical


include intrauterine growth retar­ dation, failure to thrive, delayed speech development, small head circumference, bilateral clinodactyly, and sensorineural hearing loss. Different patterns of fat loss have been reported. In many patients, lipodystrophy affects the face, upper extremities, and sometimes the trunk, with relative sparing of the lower extrem­ ities. Others had lipodystrophy affecting only the face, gluteal region, and elbows (131,132). Diabetes occurs as early as the second and third decade of life and is usually associated with insulin resistance. Patients with SHORT syndrome harbor de novo heterozygous mutations in the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase regulatory subunit 1 (PIK3R1) gene (133,134,135). The molecular genetic basis of the autosomal recessive variety of SHORT syndrome remains to be determined. MANAGEMENT OF DIABETES IN PATIENTS WITH LIPODYSTROPHY Diabetes control in patients with lipo­ dystrophies can be challenging. A multipronged strategy should be used, including diet, physical activity, and drug therapy. Reduction of energy intake and increased physical activity are important in patients with FPL to avoid excess fat deposition in non-lipodystrophic regions. Many patients with FPL have increased risk of coronary heart disease, and they should limit intake of saturated and trans-unsaturated fats and dietary cholesterol. Patients presenting with acute pancreatitis and extreme chylomi­ cronemia should be advised to consume an extremely low fat diet. However, whether such diet will be beneficial in the long term to reduce hepatic steatosis and serum triglycerides and improve glycemic control remains unclear. Controlling excessive hunger in chil­ dren with generalized lipodystrophy is extremely difficult. Metreleptin may be able to suppress appetite especially in patients with generalized lipodystrophy (79,136). However, enough energy should be provided for proper growth and development. Subcutaneous metreleptin replacement in low doses has been reported to dramatically improve diabetes control, hepatic steatosis, and hypertri­ glyceridemia in severely hypoleptinemic patients with generalized lipodystrophies (79,136,137,138). Metreleptin replacement, however, is only modestly efficacious in patients with FPL (79,136,139). Metreleptin therapy has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for improving metabolic complications in patients with generalized lipodystrophies. Since many patients with lipodystrophies have extreme insulin resistance, they may require high doses of insulin, including administration of U-500 insulin (500 units of insulin per mL). Other patients can achieve good glycemic control with oral hypoglycemic drugs, such as metformin and sulfonylureas. Metformin can improve insulin sensitivity, reduce appetite, and induce ovulation in patients with PCOS. Thiazolidinediones can also be used; however, they can induce unwanted growth of
