Case report
KEYWORDS: hypercalcaemia, patient, rhinovirus, calcium, case, vitamin, serum, infection, pth, cause, addition, obtained, normal, guo, returned


Case report Hypercalcaemia secondary to acute rhinovirus infection Hui Jun Guo ,1 Abhinav Karan ,1 Amy Kiamos ,1 Vishal Jaikaransingh2 Florida College of Medicine— Hypercalcaemia- induced rhinovirus has only been new hypercalcaemia. Jacksonville, Jacksonville, reported in a single study in children. Here, we report a Florida, USA case of hypercalcaemia in an adult who tested positive 2Internal Medicine— INVESTIGATIONS for rhinovirus. This patient underwent an extensive evaluation of hypercalcaemia, and it was found to be Jacksonville, Jacksonville, table 1 were obtained to investigate the source mediated by an increase in 1,25 hydroxy- vitamin D that Florida, USA of the patient’s new diagnosis of hypercalcaemia. could not be attributed to a cause. Their hypercalcaemia Imaging including CT of the head, chest and Correspondence to responded to standard treatment with intravascular abdomen demonstrated bilateral interstitial pneu- Dr Hui Jun Guo; expansion, bisphosphonates and calcitonin. Serum 1,25 huijun. guo@ jax. ufl. edu OH vitamin D levels returned to normal with recovery monia in keeping with rhinovirus infection but was negative for lymphadenopathy or bony lesions. from rhinovirus infection. Accepted 18 November 2022 Serum and urine immunofixation along with free light chain assay were negative. The patient also underwent bronchoscopy with bronchoalveolar BACKGROUND lavage and transbronchial biopsy due to suspicion Rhinovirus is a common cause of upper respiratory of interstitial lung disease, results of both were illness that is typically managed supportively. As it unremarkable. A lung biopsy was obtained as well, does not involve hospitalisation, there are limited which showed focal interstitial fibrosis with no data on electrolyte abnormalities that could be asso- evidence of malignancy. ciated with rhinovirus infection. Hypercalcaemia is a common clinical problem with many differen- tial diagnoses. The association of rhinovirus with DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS hypercalcaemia has been reported in a single paper The PTH was found to be suppressed which in children but none with adults.1 This case identi- points to a PTH independent cause of hypercal- fies rhinovirus infection as a possible cause of tran- caemia. PTH- rp levels were within normal limits; sient hypercalcaemia. thus, humoral hypercalcaemia of malignancy was ruled out. The elevated level of 1,25- vitamin-D raised suspicion for lymphoma or granulomatous CASE PRESENTATION disease; however, extensive imaging was negative A woman in her 60s presents with problems of for evidence of either disease. Additional multiple generalised weakness and dyspnoea for the past myeloma testing was unrevealing, thus effectively 2 weeks. She has a medical
