Case report
KEYWORDS: hypercalcaemia, patient, rhinovirus, calcium, case, vitamin, serum, infection, pth, cause, addition, obtained, normal, guo, returned


presents with problems of for evidence of either disease. Additional multiple generalised weakness and dyspnoea for the past myeloma testing was unrevealing, thus effectively 2 weeks. She has a medical history of autosomal ruling it out. One plausible diagnosis considered dominant polycystic kidney disease status post living was exogenous overconsumption of calcium; donor kidney transplant 10 years prior. The patient however, she had been taking calcium carbonate followed closely with clinic since her transplant for years prior without any evidence of hypercal- and all her medications were prescribed by physi- caemia. In addition, this would not explain her cians in our system. These include prednisone 5 mg serum 1,25 OH vitamin D level which was almost one time a day, tacrolimus 3 mg two times a day, three times the upper limit of normal. The over- mycophenolate 750 mg two times a day, calcium consumption of calcitriol was another possibility, carbonate- vitamin d 600–400 mg two tablets one but the patient denied usage and no record of a time a day, and torsemide 20 mg one time a day. calcitriol prescription was present. In addition, Family history was negative for any known form of adrenal insufficiency was also ruled out as the cause hypercalcaemia. Social history was unrevealing. On as the patient remained haemodynamically stable physical examination, the patient was noted to be the whole admission and no laboratory values were hypoxic requiring 2 L of nasal cannula. Lungs were suggestive of it.2 clear to auscultation. The abdomen was diffusely tender to palpation without guarding or rebound. © BMJ Publishing Group Chest X-r ay showed bilateral pulmonary opacities. TREATMENT Limited 2022. No commercial re- use. See rights and Initial laboratory blood test results were significant The patient was initially treated with intravenous permissions. Published by BMJ. for elevated creatinine of 3.40 mg/dL (reference isotonic saline. In addition to fluids, she received range 0.40–0.99 mg/dL) and calcium of 12.3 mg/ 60 mg of pamidronate. Despite this, her calcium To cite: Guo HJ, Karan A, dL (reference range 8.6–10.4 mg/dL). Respiratory continued to uptrend and peaked at 15.0 mg/dL. Kiamos A, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2022;15:e253846. panel swab was obtained, and patient tested posi- She received another dose of pamidronate with doi:- tive for rhinovirus PCR only. Sputum cultures were the addition of calcitonin. With this regimen, her 253846 negative. The patient was subsequently admitted calcium returned to normal limits. Guo
