Case report
KEYWORDS: hypercalcaemia, patient, rhinovirus, calcium, case, vitamin, serum, infection, pth, cause, addition, obtained, normal, guo, returned


of the mechanism and ionised calcium returned to normal limits. In addition, her of action. Additional studies are required to distinguish this serum PTH and 1,25 OH vitamin D levels returned to normal finding of hypercalcaemia in viral infections as simply a correla- as shown in table 1. tion or causation. DISCUSSION Twitter Abhinav Karan @abhz_karan Hypercalcaemia is a commonly encountered clinical problems Contributors All authors contributed equally to the production of this manuscript. with a broad differently diagnosis and because of this, an algo- HJG and AKaran contributed to the body of the manuscript. AKiamos and VJ contributed to the review of the manuscript. All authors are in agreement of the final rithm was established to ensure detailed stepwise workup for manuscript. hypercalcaemia. The most commonly identified causes include Funding The authors have not declared a specific grant for this research from any primary hyperparathyroidism, hypercalcaemia of malignancy, funding agency in the public, commercial or not- for- profit sectors. granulomatous diseases and multiple myeloma. However, if Competing interests None declared. the algorithm fails to identify the cause, other sources must be considered. In this case, we hypothesised that the cause of Patient consent for publication Consent obtained directly from patient(s) her transient hypercalcaemia was mediated by an increase in Provenance and peer review Not commissioned; externally peer reviewed. serum 1,25 OH vitamin D. The patient had resolution of hyper- Case reports provide a valuable learning resource for the scientific community and calcaemia and serum 1,25 OH vitamin D levels returned to can indicate areas of interest for future research. They should not be used in isolation she had no reoccurrence of hypercalcaemia during her subse- quent follow- up. Our hypothesis is further supported as exten- ORCID iDs sive workup excluded all other causes of hypercalcaemia. It is Hui Jun Guo once again worth noting that this patient follows very closely Abhinav Karan Amy Kiamos with our outpatient nephrologist since her transplant; thus, her medication list was tightly monitored. A thorough review of
