ESC Cardiovascular Disease Prevention Guidelines
KEYWORDS: cvd, risk, cvd risk, people, treatment, pressure, blood, blood pressure, recommended, medication, cholesterol, high, years, mmhg, lower


1. Assessment of cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk (the likelihood of experiencing a cardiovascular event, such as heart attack or stroke) is the first step to guide recommendations on prevention. CVD risk can be calculated in people without CVD (‘primary prevention’) or with known CVD (‘secondary prevention’), and in people with certain conditions who are at higher risk of CVD (e.g., those with diabetes or chronic kidney disease). 2. For people without known CVD, risk can be classified as low, moderate, high or very high and can be assessed based on a person’s age, blood pressure, cholesterol levels and smoking status. Other factors (e.g., ethnicity, psychosocial, socioeconomic or environmental factors) and health conditions may change your CVD risk (‘risk-modifiers’). The CVD risk is very high for all people with known CVD. 3. An informed discussion with your healthcare provider about CVD risk and treatment benefits tailored to your needs is recommended. Treatment decisions should be based on a shared decision-making process between you and your healthcare provider. 4. The Guidelines recommend that everyone follow certain recommendations, no matter their CVD risk. These include: • stopping smoking • following a healthy lifestyle in terms of nutrition, body weight and physical activity • achieving a systolic blood pressure of at least <160 mmHg 5. Adults of all ages should aim for at least 150–300 minutes per week of moderate intensity or 75–150 minutes per week of high intensity physical activity. Even if you cannot achieve these time recommendations, stay as active as possible – some activity is better than no activity! 6. A healthy diet is a cornerstone of CVD prevention: adopt a Mediterranean or similar diet; replace saturated (e.g., fast food, red meat) with unsaturated fat (e.g., olive oil, avocado); reduce salt intake; eat more whole grains, fruits, vegetables and nuts; eat fish at least once a week; and reduce added sugar intake. It is also advised to drink no more than 100 g of alcohol per week – how this translates into number of drinks depends on portion size, the standards of which differ by country, but there are usually between 8 and 14 g of alcohol per drink. 7. The use of medications to treat CVD risk factors (e.g., blood pressure, cholesterol) depends on CVD risk. Medication is recommended for everyone with known CVD or people without CVD but at very high risk. Medication should be considered for people without
