ESC Cardiovascular Disease Prevention Guidelines
KEYWORDS: cvd, risk, cvd risk, people, treatment, pressure, blood, blood pressure, recommended, medication, cholesterol, high, years, mmhg, lower


pressure, cholesterol) depends on CVD risk. Medication is recommended for everyone with known CVD or people without CVD but at very high risk. Medication should be considered for people without CVD who are at high risk. However, there is no lower limit of CVD risk that stops you from having treatment and no upper limit of CVD risk that means treatment is mandatory. Starting treatment should be decided on an individual basis as a result of a shared decision-making process between you and your healthcare provider. 8. Treatment goals for risk factors (how low blood pressure or cholesterol levels should be) also depend on CVD risk. In general, the higher the CVD risk, the more intensive the recommended treatment and the lower the treatment goals. 9. Treatment goals for risk factors should be achieved in a stepwise approach. The first step is to achieve recommended goals for blood pressure and cholesterol levels through lifestyle recommendations and medication if needed. Once the first step is achieved, proceeding to the second step (even lower blood pressure and cholesterol levels) should follow, based on additional considerations (estimated 10-year and lifelong risk, other medical conditions you may have) as well as your personal preferences. The ultimate aim of the second step is to achieve the following optimal goals: • systolic blood pressure <130 mmHg (for people on medication) • low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) <1.8 mmol/L (for people at high risk) or <1.4 mmol/L (for people at very high risk) In this stepwise process, the entire approach (both steps) has to be considered. 10. Statins are the first-line treatment for people requiring medication to lower their LDL-C levels. If the treatment goal (based on an individual’s CVD risk) is not reached with the maximum tolerated dose of a statin, combination with a non-statin, lipid-lowering medication is recommended. 11. For people who require medication to lower their blood pressure, the ultimate treatment goal for systolic blood pressure is 120–130 mmHg for most adults aged <70 years, and <140 mmHg (down to 130 mmHg if tolerated) for those aged ≥70 years. For diastolic blood pressure, a goal of <80 mmHg is recommended for all people on medication. Antihypertensive treatment (medications that lower your blood pressure) in a two-medicine combination is recommended for most people. 12. For people with diabetes, a treatment goal of glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) <7.0% is recommended for most adults. Metformin is the first- line
