Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: hypercalcemia, calcium, serum, hpth, pth, patients, renal, serum calcium, primary, bone, table, elevated, disorders, endocrine, associated


CLINICAL RECOGNITION Hypercalcemia can be defined as a serum calcium greater than 2 standard deviations above the normal mean in a reference laboratory. Calcium in the blood is normally transported: partly bound to plasma proteins (about 45%), notably to albumin; partly bound to small anions such as phosphate and citrate (about 10%); partly in the free or ionized state (about 45%). Only the ionized calcium is metabolically active i.e. subject to transport into cells, but most laboratories report total serum calcium concentrations. Hypercalcemia is therefore often defined as a total serum calcium (bound plus ionized) greater than 10.6 mg/dl (2.65 mM) or an ionized serum calcium greater than 5.3 mg/dl (1.3 mM) but values may vary between laboratories. Dehydration, or hemoconcentration during venipuncture, may elevate total serum albumin whereas ionized calcium may remain normal. Consequently, a falsely elevated total serum calcium may be reported. Conversely when serum albumin levels are low, total serum calcium may be falsely low. To correct for an abnormally high or low serum albumin the following formula can be used: Corrected calcium (mg/dL) = measured total serum calcium (mg/dL) + [4.0-serum albumin (g/dL) X 0.8] or Corrected calcium (mM) = measured total serum Ca (mM) + [40 - serum albumin (g/L) X 0.02] Changes in blood pH can also alter the equilibrium constant of the albumin-calcium complex: Acidosis reduces binding and alkalosis enhances binding. Consequently, when major shifts in serum protein or pH are present it is prudent to directly measure the ionized calcium level in order to determine the presence of hypercalcemia. Clinical Manifestations may be due to hypercalcemia or may be due to the causal disorder or may be due to both. Hypercalcemic manifestations will vary depending on whether the hypercalcemia is of acute onset and severe (greater than 12 mg/dL or 3 mM) or whether it is chronic and relatively mild. Patients may also tolerate higher serum calcium levels more readily if the onset is relatively gradual, but at concentrations above 14 mg/dL (3.5 mM) most patients are symptomatic. In both acute and chronic cases, the major manifestations affect gastrointestinal, renal and neuromuscular function ( Table 1 ). Table 1. Manifestations of Hypercalcemia View in own window Acute Chronic Gastrointestinal Anorexia, nausea, vomiting Dyspepsia, constipation, pancreatitis Renal Polyuria, polydipsia Nephrolithiasis, nephrocalcinosis Neuro-muscular Depression, confusion, stupor, coma Weakness Cardiac Short Q-T interval bradycardia, first degree atrioventricular block, digitalis sensitivity Hypertension PATHOPHYSIOLOGY Fluxes of calcium
