Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: hypercalcemia, calcium, serum, hpth, pth, patients, renal, serum calcium, primary, bone, table, elevated, disorders, endocrine, associated


Dyspepsia, constipation, pancreatitis Renal Polyuria, polydipsia Nephrolithiasis, nephrocalcinosis Neuro-muscular Depression, confusion, stupor, coma Weakness Cardiac Short Q-T interval bradycardia, first degree atrioventricular block, digitalis sensitivity Hypertension PATHOPHYSIOLOGY Fluxes of calcium across the skeleton, the gut, and the kidney play a major role in maintaining calcium homeostasis. When the extracellular fluid (ECF) calcium is raised above the normal range, the calcium ion per se, by stimulating the G-protein coupled calcium sensing receptor (CaSR), can inhibit parathyroid hormone (PTH) release. Decreased PTH and CaSR stimulation will both facilitate reduced renal calcium reabsorption, and decreased PTH will result in reduced bone resorption and diminished release of calcium from bone. Decreased PTH and hypercalcemia will also reduce renal production of the active form of vitamin D, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D [1,25(OH) 2 D], and decrease gut absorption of calcium. The net effect of the diminished renal calcium reabsorption, intestinal calcium absorption, and skeletal calcium resorption will be to reduce the elevated ECF calcium to normal. Consequently, decreased levels of PTH and decreased levels of 1,25(OH) 2 D should accompany hypercalcemia unless the PTH or 1,25(OH) 2 D is the cause of the hypercalcemia. The converse sequence of events occurs when the ECF calcium is reduced below the normal range. A genetic relative of PTH, PTH-related peptide (PTHrP), can also resorb bone, when released from certain tumors. Both PTH and PTHrP act on osteoblastic cells to increase production of cytokines, notably receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa B ligand (RANKL) which increases production and activation of multinucleated osteoclasts which then resorb mineralized bone. DIAGNOSIS AND DIFFERENTIAL ( FIGURE 1 ) Figure 1 Algorithm for Diagnosing the Cause of Hypercalcemia Hypercalcemic disorders can be broadly grouped into Endocrine Disorders, Malignant Disorders, Inflammatory Disorders, Medication-Induced Hypercalcemia, and Immobilization as given in Tables 2 -8. Primary hyperparathyroidism (HPTH) and malignancy-associated hypercalcemia (MAH) account for the vast majority of hypercalcemic disorders. (For a more complete discussion of hypercalcemic disorders and the underlying pathophysiology, see reference 1 ) Table 2. Endocrine Disorders Associated with Hypercalcemia View in own window 1. Endocrine Disorders with Excess PTH Production Primary Sporadic Hyperparathyroidism (HPTH) Adenoma (85-95%) Hyperplasia (10-15%) Carcinoma (<1%) (80% of primary hyperparathyroidism is “asymptomatic”) Primary Familial HPTH (Syndromic HPTH) Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia, Type I (MEN1)- Autosomal dominant, MEN1 mutation (encodes menin) Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia, Type II (also called MENIIA)- Autosomal dominant, RET mutation (encodes c-Ret) Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia, Type IV (MENIV)- Autosomal dominant, CDKN1B
