Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: hypercalcemia, calcium, serum, hpth, pth, patients, renal, serum calcium, primary, bone, table, elevated, disorders, endocrine, associated


Table 8. Immobilization View in own window Immobilized patients continue to resorb bone whereas bone formation is inhibited. Consequently, immobilization may precipitate hypercalcemia and hypercalciuria in individuals with high bone turnover such as growing children, patients with Paget’s Disease or patients with primary HPTH or MAH. DIAGNOSTIC TESTS NEEDED AND SUGGESTED Laboratory testing should be guided by the results of a careful history and a detailed physical examination and should be geared toward assessing the extent of the alteration in calcium homeostasis and toward establishing the underlying diagnosis and determining its severity. Most patients with primary HPTH, the most common cause of hypercalcemia in the clinic, present with mild hypercalcemia discovered on a routine biochemical assessment. There may be a history of a recent or remote renal stone. Bone pain and fractures are rare although the patient may carry a diagnosis of osteoporosis based on a previous bone mineral density (BMD) measurement. A history of a documented peptic ulcer is rare in primary sporadic HPTH and should raise concern about MEN1. Although cardiovascular and neuropsychiatric manifestations have been described they appear to require more validation. Documentation of at least two elevated corrected (or ionized) serum calcium levels with concomitant elevated (or at least normal) serum PTH levels is required to establish the diagnosis ( Figure 1 ). Lithium treatment has been associated with hypercalcemia, elevated or normal serum PTH, and increased renal calcium reabsorption. The presence of a family history of hypercalcemia or of kidney stones should raise suspicion of MEN1 or MEN2a (reference 3 and 4 ). If, in addition to primary HPTH in the proband, one or more first-degree relatives are found to have at least one of the three tumors characterizing MEN1 (parathyroid, pituitary, pancreas) or MEN2a (parathyroid, medullary thyroid carcinoma, pheochromocytoma) then it is highly likely that the disease is familial. The presence of ossifying fibromas of the mandible and maxilla, and renal lesions such as cysts and hamartomas in addition to HPTH would suggest HPTH-jaw tumor syndrome. In all patients with documented primary HPTH, a 24-hour urine calcium and creatinine level should be obtained to exclude familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia (FHH). If the urine calcium to creatinine ratio is less than 0.01 and if testing serum and urine calcium in three relatives discloses hypercalcemia and relative hypocalciuria in other family members, then this diagnosis is likely and parathyroid surgery is to be avoided. If the urine
