Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: hypercalcemia, calcium, serum, hpth, pth, patients, renal, serum calcium, primary, bone, table, elevated, disorders, endocrine, associated


and urine calcium in three relatives discloses hypercalcemia and relative hypocalciuria in other family members, then this diagnosis is likely and parathyroid surgery is to be avoided. If the urine calcium to creatinine ratio is greater than 0.01 then estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) and a BMD test should be performed and guidelines for treatment of primary HPTH should be considered (see below). Tertiary hyperparathyroidism with hypercalcemia and elevated PTH has been described in chronic kidney disease patients on hemodialysis, or in patients with hypophosphatemic syndromes (e.g. x-linked hypophosphatemic rickets) receiving long-term oral phosphate therapy without concomitant calcitriol. If hypercalcemia is associated with very low or suppressed serum PTH levels, then malignancy would be an important consideration, either in association with elevated serum PTHrP or in its absence, in which case it is generally as a result of the production of other cytokines, often with osteolytic metastases. When malignancy-associated hypercalcemia is suspected then an appropriate malignancy screen should be done including skeletal imaging to identify skeletal metastases. As well appropriate general biochemical assessment such as a complete blood count and serum creatinine and specific biochemical assessment such as serum and urine protein electrophoresis to exclude multiple myeloma would be appropriate. Detection of elevated serum 1,25(OH) 2 D levels in the absence of elevated serum PTH levels, suggests the need for a search for lymphoma or for non-infectious (e.g. sarcoidosis) or infectious granulomatous disease. Hypercalcemia may also occur with thyrotoxicosis, pheochromocytoma, VIPoma, and hypoadrenalism. Increased PTHrP may be associated with neuroendocrine tumors. Serum PTH levels are suppressed in these disorders and 1,25(OH) 2 D levels are not elevated. Although these conditions may be suspected from clinical examination, detailed biochemical evaluation of these non-PTH associated endocrine disorders is required for confirmation. Detection of elevated serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D], should lead to a search for vitamin D intoxication. Vitamin A intoxication may also lead to hypercalcemia, but in the absence of elevated serum 25(OH)D, 1,25(OH) 2 D, or PTH. Hypercalcemia has been reported in association with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), HTLV-III or cytomegalovirus (CMV) infections of the skeleton, presumably due to direct skeletal resorption. Use of foscarnet as an antiviral agent has also been associated with hypercalcemia. Transient hypercalcemia may accompany thiazide diuretic ingestion, possibly associated with dehydration, but prolonged hypercalcemia with thiazides requires a search for other causes. Hypercalcemia may be seen in patients with advanced breast cancer with skeletal metastases, at
