Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: hypercalcemia, calcium, serum, hpth, pth, patients, renal, serum calcium, primary, bone, table, elevated, disorders, endocrine, associated


ingestion, possibly associated with dehydration, but prolonged hypercalcemia with thiazides requires a search for other causes. Hypercalcemia may be seen in patients with advanced breast cancer with skeletal metastases, at the initiation of treatment with tamoxifen. Aminophylline and theophylline used as bronchodilators have (rarely) been reported to be associated with hypercalcemia. The use of aluminum-containing phosphate binders in patients on chronic hemodialysis was associated with hypercalcemia in the past but, with the advent of other modes of therapy, this is rarely seen today. Similarly, the use of absorbable alkali (NaHCO 3 ) along with large quantities of milk for ulcer treatment was a cause of hypercalcemia in the past but this therapy has been superseded today. In the pediatric age group, hypercalcemia may include Jansens’s Metaphyseal Chondrodysplasia due to an activating mutation of the type 1 PTH/PTHrP receptor; neonatal severe hyperparathyroidism (NSHPTH) which may present with life-threatening hypercalcemia in neonates that are homozygous for inactivating mutations in CaSR; William’s Syndrome, an autosomal dominant disorder with hemizygous submicroscopic deletions of chromosome 7q11.23, characterized phenotypically by multiple congenital abnormalities, and in which hypercalcemia may occur possibly due to aberrant vitamin D metabolism; and idiopathic infantile hypercalcemia (IIH) in which hypercalcemia may be associated with increased 1,25(OH) 2 D.due to loss-of-function mutations in CYP24A1, the gene encoding the enzyme responsible for the first step in inactivation of 1,25(OH) 2 D. IIH may also be caused by loss-of-function mutations in SLC34A1, encoding the renal proximal tubular sodium-phosphate cotransporter, Na/Pi-IIa, leading to phosphaturia, phosphate depletion, suppression of the hormone fibroblast growth factor-23 (FGF-23), decreased CYP24A1,and increased 1,25(OH) 2 D production. THERAPY If the patient's serum calcium concentration is less than 12 mg/dL (3 mM) then treatment of the hypercalcemia can be aimed solely at treatment of the underlying disorder. If the patient has symptoms and signs of acute hypercalcemia as described above and serum calcium is greater than 12 mg/dL (3 mM), then a series of urgent measures should be instituted ( Table 9). These measures are almost always required with a serum calcium above 14 mg/dL (3.5 mM). Table 9. Management of Acute Hypercalcemia View in own window 1. Hydration to Restore Euvolemia 0.9% saline (e.g. an initial rate of 200-300 mL/h subsequently adjusted to maintain a urine output at 100-150 mL/h). Use caution in patients with compromised cardiovascular or renal function. 2. Inhibition of Bone Resorption Zoledronate 4 mg intravenously in 5 ml
