Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: hypercalcemia, calcium, serum, hpth, pth, patients, renal, serum calcium, primary, bone, table, elevated, disorders, endocrine, associated


to maintain a urine output at 100-150 mL/h). Use caution in patients with compromised cardiovascular or renal function. 2. Inhibition of Bone Resorption Zoledronate 4 mg intravenously in 5 ml over 15 min or Pamidronate, 90 mg, intravenously in 500 ml of 0.9% saline or 5% dextrose in water over 4 hours. Peak decrease in serum calcium after 4 days but may last for 8 weeks. Flu-like syndrome or myalgias may occur If bisphosphonates are contraindicated due to severe renal impairment, denosumab can be given instead (e.g. 0.3 mg/kg sc), with a second dose administered if the calcium is not lowered within approximately one week. Low serum 25(OH)D, if present, should be corrected before administering denosumab Calcitonin, 4 to 8 IU/Kg im or sc, every 6-12 hours may be used with a bisphosphonate or denosumab because of its more rapid onset of action. Peak decrease in serum calcium within 2-6 hours Tachyphylaxis may occur after 24-48 hours May use with a parenteral bisphosphonate for severe hypercalcemia because onset of calcium reduction is earlier 3. Calciuresis (when decreased renal excretion is suspected e.g. with excess PTH or PTHrP) Loop diuretic e.g. furosemide, 10 to 20 mg IV Administer only after rehydration 4. Glucocorticoids (when indicated) e.g. hydrocortisone 200 to 300 mg intravenously over 24 hours for 3 to 5 days For patients with responsive hematologic malignancies such as lymphoma or myeloma For patients with vitamin D intoxication or granulomatous disease with increased 1,25(OH) 2 D 5. Dialysis Patients refractory to other therapies Patients with renal insufficiency Either peritoneal dialysis or hemodialysis can be effective 6. Calcimimetics The calcimimetic, cinacalcet, may be used in doses starting from 30 mg twice daily orally to as high as 90 mg 4 times daily for the treatment of hypercalcemia due to severe primary HPTH (especially if caused by a parathyroid carcinoma) 7. Mobilization Mobilize as rapidly as possible after the acute episode FOLLOW-UP In the patient with primary sporadic HPTH who presents with kidney stones, fractures, or a low BMD (T-score less than -2.5) surgery would be indicated. In the patient with documented asymptomatic primary HPTH, follow-up should be done annually with measurement of serum calcium and serum creatinine (to determine estimated GFR). BMD should be repeated every one to two years. Guidelines below should be considered for recommending surgery (reference 2 ). The diagnosis of familial disease raises issues of management of HPTH in
