0095-1137/91/051083-04$02.00/0
KEYWORDS: kingae, disk, children, infection, kingella, cases, kingella kingae, caused, ofthe, organism, moraxella, reported, intervertebral, oxacillin, inflammation


Kingella kingae Intervertebral Disk Infection JACOB AMIRt* AND PENELOPE G. SHOCKELFORD Received 13 November 1990/Accepted 31 January 1991 Disk inflammation in children is believed toresult from infection, andStaphylococcus aureusis reported to be the organism most commonly isolated from cases of intervertebral disk infection. A case of disk inflammationcausedbytheunusualpathogenKingeUlakingaeisdescribed.Theantibioticsusceptibilityofother K. kingaeisolatesandtheclinicalfeaturesof11 otherpreviouslyreportedcasesofdiskinfectioncausedbythis microorganism are reviewed. Disk inflammation in children is believed to result from interspace. Computerized tomography ofthe involved area infection, although cultures from closed and open biopsies showed a prevertebral mass extending from T1l to L2 with yield bacterial growth in only approximately 50% of cases bony destruction ofthe vertebralbodies ofT1l, T12, L1, and (33). Staphylococcus aureus is reported to be the organism L2. Because ofthe large prevertebral mass and the unusual most commonly isolated from cases of intervertebral disk involvement of two noncontiguous disk spaces, a needle infection (1, 18, 20, 37). The purpose of this report is to biopsy of the paraspinal mass was performed under direct describe a case ofdisk inflammation caused by the unusual visualization by using biplanar fluoroscopy. Material from pathogen Kingella kingae. We wish to call attention to the the aspirate was submitted for pathologic examination and clindamycin and vancomycin resistance ofthe isolate from revealed an acute inflammatory response. Gram stains re- our patient and also to the involvement of multiple disk vealed many polymorphonuclear leukocytes, but no organ- spaces. The antibiotic susceptibility of other K. kingae isms were seen. Stains for fungi and acid-fast bacilli were isolates, the frequency of K. kingae as a cause of disk negative. reported cases ofdisk infection caused by this microorgan- negative. After 3 days, cultures of material aspirated from ism are reviewed. the paraspinal mass grew a few colonies of gram-negative Case report. An 18-month-old female was hospitalized coccobacilli on the chocolate agar plate only. These were with a 4-day history of progressive difficulty in walking. identified as K. kingae in our laboratory, with confirmation There was no history of trauma. Two months prior to by the Missouri State Laboratory. This bacterium presents admission, she had been treated with amoxicillin for a skin relatively small, usually smooth and hemolytic colonies on infection that was thought to be impetigo. She was seen 24-h blood agar plates. Additional features are tabulated by again 1 week prior to admission with a complaint ofconsti- Weaveretal. (36). Diskdiffusion tests forantibiotic suscep- pation. Four days prior to admission, the patient started tibility were
