0095-1137/91/051083-04$02.00/0
KEYWORDS: kingae, disk, children, infection, kingella, cases, kingella kingae, caused, ofthe, organism, moraxella, reported, intervertebral, oxacillin, inflammation


are tabulated by again 1 week prior to admission with a complaint ofconsti- Weaveretal. (36). Diskdiffusion tests forantibiotic suscep- pation. Four days prior to admission, the patient started tibility were performed on Mueller-Hinton chocolate agar; walking with an exaggerated lumbar lordosis. This problem the organism was susceptible to penicillin, ampicillin, ticar- progressedtowalkingwitha"tilt" totheleftandeventually cillin, cephalothin, cefuroxime, cefotaxime, gentamicin, a to refusal to walk. The only associated problem was chloramphenicol, erythromycin, and trimethoprim-sulfa- irritability. There was no report offever. methoxazole; it was resistant to oxacillin and clindamycin. On initial examination, the axillary temperature was However, tube dilution susceptibility testing (kindly per- 37.5°C. The child was irritable and refused to walk. The formedbyJ. M. SwensonattheCentersforDiseaseControl, patellar reflex on the right side was slightly decreased Atlanta, Ga.) revealed that the MIC of oxacillin was 1.0 compared with the left. The remainder of the neurologic ,ug/ml, a value that categorizes the organism as susceptible. examination was unremarkable. There was no tenderness Results of tube dilution susceptibility tests with the other over the spine. antimicrobial agents correlated with their respective disk Laboratory studies included a hemoglobin value of 11.2 diffusion results. The MIC ofvancomycin was >32 ,ug/ml. g/dlandatotalleukocyte countof9,800/mm3, with 1%band The patient was immobilized with a brace, and therapy cells, 38% neutrophils, 60% lymphocytes, and 1% eosino- was initiated with intravenous oxacillin. After the culture phils. The erythrocyte sedimentation rate was 45 mm/h. A results became available, ampicillin was added to the thera- purified protein derivative skin test was negative at 48 h, peutic regimen. Inc., Miami, Fla.). days after initiation oftherapy showed a slight decrease in Radiographs ofthe spine revealed narrowed disk spaces the size of the paraspinal mass. Patellar reflexes were between T1l andT12 andbetween L1 and L2, with irregular- symmetrical. The erythrocyte sedimentation rate decreased ities ofthe adjacent vertebral cortical margins. A bone scan to 19mm/hafter2weeksoftreatment. Thechildwastreated with Tc-99m showed increased uptake only at the L1-L2 for 8 weeks with parenteral antibiotics. Follow-up evalua- tion, 17 months later, revealed the patient to be asympto- matic. Follow-up radiographs at that time demonstrated * Corresponding author. reconstitution of the T11-T12 disk space with a prominent t Presentaddress: DepartmentofPediatrics, GoldaMedicalCen- residual bony defect along the anterosuperior margin ofthe 1084 NOTES J. CLIN. MICROBIOL. TABLE 1. Disk infection caused by K. kingae-clinical data Caseno. ( A m g o eA ) Sexa in ~ f ~~ l ~ a L d e m i ve
