Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


particular assay used. This requirement is satisfied for well standardized assays for serum TSH, total T4 and total T3. However, when free T4 is estimated, assay results often need to be evaluated in relation to method-specific reference intervals or “normal ranges”. Free T3 estimates are even more subject to spurious results and high inter-method variability. This limitation of both assessments is particularly cogent during pregnancy and in the face of critical illness (see below). The widespread search for even minor thyroid dysfunction is influenced by two key questions. How damaging are the effects of subclinical dysfunction? Does treatment confer benefit? The answers are not uniform across populations. The diagnostic imperative is now radically different for the population at large and for women who are pregnant or about to become pregnant. Some key practice points that relate to the testing of thyroid function are summarized in Table 1 . Table 1. Key Practice Points Related to the Testing of Thyroid Function View in own window 1. Many disorders are associated with increased prevalence of thyroid dysfunction; optimal testing strategy requires information on all co-existing conditions and medications. 2. The more widely thyroid function is tested, the greater the proportion of abnormal results that show borderline or “subclinical dysfunction”. 3. Testing of thyroid function is now widely advocated before and early in pregnancy, especially where fertility is impaired, assisted reproduction is used, or where pregnancy complications have occurred. 4. Except for “subclinical” hypothyroidism in early or impending pregnancy, intervention for subclinical thyroid dysfunction should only be considered after a sustained abnormality has been demonstrated over a minimum of three months. 5. There is increasing documentation of adverse effects from sustained or progressive subclinical hypothyroidism, although evidence of benefit from treatment is less clear. 6. The combination of raised serum TSH and positive peroxidase antibody is predictive of likely long-term progression towards overt hypothyroidism. 7. The relationship between serum TSH and circulating thyroid hormones gives a better index of thyroid status than any single variable. Six key assumptions underpin the diagnostic value of this relationship. 8. “TSH alone” first line approach to thyroid function testing has important drawbacks and limitations. 9. Serum TSH is a cornerstone of thyroid diagnosis, but it is not possible to define its “normal” range or reference interval for all clinical circumstances. Age, pregnancy and fertility issues, diurnal variation and pulse secretion, and associated antibody status militate against fixed
