Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


possible to define its “normal” range or reference interval for all clinical circumstances. Age, pregnancy and fertility issues, diurnal variation and pulse secretion, and associated antibody status militate against fixed cut-off points. 10. Both TSH and T4 show spontaneous biological fluctuations that are much greater than analytical imprecision. A serial change can be inferred with confidence with about 50% alteration in serum TSH and 25% change in the free T4 estimate. 11. During thyroid hormone therapy, either replacement or suppressive, the optimal target TSH range may differ from the reference interval that is used to establish a new diagnosis. 12. Interpretation of anomalous test results should take into account the effects of all associated medications, as well as nutraceuticals, e.g. biotin. 13. No estimate of circulating free thyroxine is impeccable. Especially in situations where assessment is difficult, e.g. late pregnancy and severe associated illness, there are strong arguments for re-establishing total T4 measurement as the preferred “gold standard”. 14. Identification of marked iodine excess, detected by urinary estimation, may identify reversible thyroid abnormalities, e.g. iodine-induced exacerbation of primary hypothyroidism, atypical thyrotoxicosis with blocked isotope uptake, or resistance to standard doses of antithyroid drugs. Some food sources (e.g. soy, sea weed) and alternative health care products can be heavily iodine-contaminated. WHO SHOULD BE TESTED FOR THYROID DYSFUNCTION? It has long been recognized that the clinical manifestations of hyperthyroidism (thyrotoxicosis), or hypothyroidism are so diverse that diagnosis based on clinical features lacks sensitivity and specificity. Hence, reliance is placed on measurements of circulating thyroid hormones and thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) to confirm or rule out thyroid dysfunction. After the publication of guidelines from the American College of Physicians in 1998 ( 1 , 2 ), testing for detection of thyroid dysfunction became widely applied, especially in women over 50, the group most likely to have either overt or subclinical thyroid dysfunction. Testing of this group is generally advocated at the time of presentation for medical care, i.e. a case finding strategy, rather than screening of a whole population group. A normal serum TSH value in ambulatory patients without associated disease or pituitary dysfunction has a high negative predictive value in ruling out both primary hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism ( 1 , 2 ), which has led to a short-cut approach in which free T4 may only be estimated if TSH is above 10 mU/l. However, this ”TSH first” strategy of thyroid function testing
