Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


of Clinical Assessment Studies of unselected patients evaluated by primary care physicians show that clinical acumen alone lacks both sensitivity and specificity in detecting previously undiagnosed thyroid dysfunction. In up to one-third of patients evaluated for suspected thyroid dysfunction by specialists, laboratory results led to revision of the clinical assessment ( 48 ). Systematic comparison of the standard clinical features of hypothyroidism with laboratory tests ( 49 ) showed that clinical assessment identified only about 40% with overt hypothyroidism and classical signs were present only in the most severely affected individuals. Both overt hyper- and hypothyroidism can have important consequences before the usual clinical features are obvious, and clinicians may fail to recognize diagnostic features even when they are present. Boelaert et al. ( 50 ) have recently confirmed that the typical multiple classical symptoms of hyperthyroidism become less prevalent with advancing age, with greater importance of weight loss, atrial fibrillation, and shortness of breath as presenting features ( 51 ). They proposed a low threshold for assessment of thyroid function in patients older than 60 years who have any of these features. Clinical evaluation remains of central importance to assess severity of thyroid dysfunction, evaluate discordant results, establish the specific cause of thyroid dysfunction and monitor the response to treatment. There is little doubt that repeated laboratory confirmation of normal thyroid function can be wasteful; strategies have been suggested to improve cost-effectiveness ( 51 - 53 ). However, functional disorders of the thyroid (hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism) are common and, in many cases, managed by primary care providers. In addition to diagnosed cases, there are many patients who present to their provider seeking evaluation of their thyroid status as a possible cause of a variety of complaints including obesity, mood changes, hair loss, and fatigue. There is an ever-growing body of literature in the public domain, whether in print or internet-based, suggesting that thyroid conditions are under-diagnosed by physicians and that standard thyroid function tests are unreliable. Primary care providers are often the first to evaluate these patients and order biochemical testing. This has become a more complex process, with many patients requesting and even demanding certain biochemical tests that may not be indicated ( 54 ). Prevalence In considering the prevalence of thyroid dysfunction, a distinction needs to be made between so-called subclinical and overt abnormalities; paradoxically, this distinction is based on laboratory rather than clinical criteria. There is
