Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


the prevalence of thyroid dysfunction, a distinction needs to be made between so-called subclinical and overt abnormalities; paradoxically, this distinction is based on laboratory rather than clinical criteria. There is a trend to replace the term ‘subclinical hypothyroidism’ with the designation ‘mild thyroid failure’ ( 55 , 56 ). In the progressive development of thyroid dysfunction, abnormal values for serum TSH generally occur before there is a diagnostic abnormality of serum T4, because of the markedly amplified relationship between serum T4 and release of TSH from the anterior pituitary (see below). For a two-fold change in serum T4, up or down from the set-point for that individual, the serum TSH will normally change up to 100-fold in the reverse direction ( 57 , 58 ). Thus, TSH becomes recognizably abnormal long before the serum concentrations of T4 or T3 fall outside the population-based reference interval. This was made possible by introduction of immunochemiluminometric methods for measurement of serum TSH with an increased functional sensitivity ( 59 ). The more widespread the testing of thyroid function in the absence of suggestive clinical features, the greater the proportion of abnormal results in which only TSH is abnormal. In evaluating serum TSH, typically defined with a normal reference interval of about 0.4-4.0 mU/l, it is important to note that normal values approximate to a logarithmic distribution, with mean and median values at 1.0-1.5 mU/l ( 57 , 60 - 62 ). While values of 2-4 mU/l lie within the reference range, the likelihood of eventual hypothyroidism increases progressively for values above 2 mU/l, especially if thyroid peroxidase antibodies are present ( 63 ). A population study in Colorado ( 64 ), of over 25,000 individuals of mean age 56 years, 56% of whom were female, showed TSH excess in 9.5%, with a 2.2% prevalence of suppressed TSH; over half the group with suppressed TSH were taking thyroid medication. In women, the prevalence of TSH excess increased progressively from 4% at age 18-24 to 20% over age 74 ( 64 ). The National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES III) ( 63 ), found hypothyroidism in 4.6% of the US population (0.3% overt and 4.3% subclinical) and hyperthyroidism in 1.3% (0.5% overt), with increasing prevalence with age in both females and males ( figure 1 ). Abnormalities were more common in females than males. The prevalence of positive thyroid peroxidase antibodies was clearly associated
