Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


prevalence with age in both females and males ( figure 1 ). Abnormalities were more common in females than males. The prevalence of positive thyroid peroxidase antibodies was clearly associated with both hyper- and hypothyroidism, with important ethnic differences in antibody prevalence. Figure 1. Percentage of the US population (NHANESIII) with abnormal serum TSH concentrations as a function of age. The disease-free population excludes those who reported thyroid disease, goiter or thyroid-related medications; the reference population excluded, in addition, those who had positive thyroid autoantibodies, or were taking medications that can influence thyroid function. Note the much higher prevalence of TSH abnormalities in the total population, than in the reference population (from reference ( 63 )). Prevalence data from one region do not necessarily apply in other populations, because of differences such as ethnic predisposition or variations in iodine intake. For example, in Hong Kong, where iodine intake is marginally deficient, only 1.2% of Chinese women aged over 60 years had serum TSH values > 5 mU/l, with a comparable prevalence of suppressed values indicating possible hyperthyroidism ( 65 ). Several European studies ( 66 , 67 ) have compared the effect of various levels of iodine intake on the prevalence of thyroid over- and underfunction. Hypothyroidism is generally more common with abundant iodine intake, while goiter and subclinical hyperthyroidism are more common with low iodine intake ( 66 , 67 ). This was illustrated in a random selection of 4649 participants from the Civil Registration System in Denmark in age groups between 18 and 65 years. Thyroid dysfunction was evaluated from blood samples and questionnaires and compared with results from ultrasonography. Median iodine excretion was 53 µg/l in Aalborg and 68 µg/l in Copenhagen. Previously diagnosed thyroid dysfunction was found with the same prevalence in these regions. Serum TSH was lower in Aalborg than in Copenhagen (P=0.003) and declined with age in Aalborg, but not in Copenhagen. No previously diagnosed hyperthyroidism was found with the same overall prevalence in the two regions, but in subjects >40 years hyperthyroidism was more prevalent in Aalborg (1.3 vs 0.5%, P=0.017). No previously diagnosed hypothyroidism was found more frequently in Aalborg (0.6 vs 0.2%, P=0.03). Hyperthyroidism was more often associated with macronodular thyroid structure at ultrasound in Aalborg and hypothyroidism was more often associated with a patchy thyroid structure in Copenhagen. Thus, significant differences in thyroid dysfunction were found between the regions with
