Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


remains uncertain ( 70 ). Various authorities have expressed divergent views on the importance of detecting the mild TSH abnormalities that reflect subclinical thyroid dysfunction. Extremes of opinion can be summarized as follows. On the one hand, some take the position that subclinical thyroid dysfunction, both hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism, are disorders that need to be treated in order to avert potential harm ( 71 ). To achieve optimal sensitivity, particularly for the diagnosis of hypothyroidism, some have advocated that the upper limit of the TSH reference interval should be lowered ( 72 ) because values in the range 2-4 mU/l, usually regarded as normal, are associated with an increased prevalence of future hypothyroidism ( 62 ). Active search for subclinical thyroid dysfunction is based on the view that treatment is usually justified, because of potential adverse outcomes, even if proof of benefit is still lacking. At this end of the opinion spectrum, there is support for general community screening for thyroid dysfunction ( 71 ), in contrast to a case-finding strategy for women over 50 when they present for medical care ( 1 ). Others have taken the view that while there is circumstantial evidence that subclinical thyroid dysfunction can have adverse long-term effects, there is still a lack of strong evidence that treatment of thyroid dysfunction in general confers benefit ( 73 ), although more indicative evidence has emerged with time (see later). Thus, treatment of subclinical hyperthyroidism seems to improve bone health ( 74 ) and prevent atrial fibrillation ( 15 ), while evidence for treatment benefits of subclinical hypothyroidism is much weaker, at least in patients above 65 years of age (see later). A definitive position on this dilemma should ideally emerge from long-term studies focused on outcomes, but if differences are small, studies may be under-powered and the results may still be indeterminate. Other factors to take into account in establishing an approach to widespread thyroid testing include ethnic or environmental predisposition to thyroid dysfunction in various communities, balance with other healthcare priorities that may be more compelling, cost of laboratory testing and the extent to which competent clinical assessment and therapeutic response may be overwhelmed by reliance on laboratory measurements. Yet, even with the aspect of not advocating for universal screening, some guidelines inadvertently include almost all women for testing of thyroid function, even if not stating it clearly ( 75 ). Thus, according to
