Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


of not advocating for universal screening, some guidelines inadvertently include almost all women for testing of thyroid function, even if not stating it clearly ( 75 ). Thus, according to the American Thyroid Association (ATA) and American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists (AACE) guidelines, levothyroxine therapy would be considered for 92% of women with subclinical hypothyroidism and TSH ≤10 mU/L ( 75 ). Adverse Consequences of Subclinical Thyroid Dysfunction The issues that identify the clinical importance of subclinical thyroid dysfunction are summarized in Table 4 ; many of these adverse effects relate to the cardiovascular system ( 73 , 76 ). There is still conflicting evidence on whether mild thyroid abnormalities influence cardiovascular mortality and, as yet, no convincing support for the proposition that treatment of subclinical thyroid dysfunction improves survival. In a 12-year follow-up study of women over 65, neither TSH > 5 mU/l, nor <0.5 mU/l were associated with any increase in all-cause or cardiovascular mortality, although a previous history of hyperthyroidism had a minor adverse effect ( 77 ). In contrast, another survey of the relationship between serum TSH and all-cause and cardiovascular mortality over a 10-year period in individuals over 60, showed that the group with serum TSH below 0.5 mU/l had a significantly increased mortality, apparently due to cardiovascular disease ( 78 ), although an increased serum TSH was not associated with excess mortality ( 78 ). More recent studies provide strengthening evidence for adverse effects from minor degrees of thyroid dysfunction. A Scottish study ( 79 ) of over 17,000 people followed for an average of 4.5 years, correlated fatal or non-fatal first episodes of cardiovascular disease, arrhythmias, and osteoporotic fractures with ambulatory serum TSH values. With elevated TSH >4 mU/l there was an increased incidence of dysrhythmia, cardiovascular ischemic episodes, and fracture (hazard ratios 1.8-1.95) ( 77 ). With a suppressed serum TSH <0.03 mU/l, all three endpoints were also increased in frequency (hazard ratio 1.4-2.0). It is important to note that these authors distinguished between clearly suppressed TSH (<0.03 mU/l) and subnormal-detectable TSH 0.04-0.4 mU/l, the latter of which was not associated with significant adverse effects. These findings appeared to be at odds with the initial evaluation of the Wickham data that showed no adverse cardiovascular effects of subclinical hypothyroidism. However, reanalysis of the Whickham findings ( 80 ) did show an adverse effect if the beneficial effect of thyroxine treatment was excluded.
