Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


no adverse cardiovascular effects of subclinical hypothyroidism. However, reanalysis of the Whickham findings ( 80 ) did show an adverse effect if the beneficial effect of thyroxine treatment was excluded. Table 4. Reported Effects of Subclinical Thyroid Dysfunction View in own window Subclinical hyperthyroidism (suppressed TSH, normal free T4, and free T3 estimates) Exposure to iodine may precipitate severe thyrotoxicosis ( 81 ) Threefold increased risk of atrial fibrillation after 10 years ( 82 ) Abnormalities of cardiac function ( 15 , 82 , 83 ) Osteoporosis risk increased ( 84 , 85 ) Progression to overt hyperthyroidism ( 86 , 87 ) Subclinical hypothyroidism or mild thyroid failure (increased TSH, normal free T4 estimate) Non-specific symptoms may improve with treatment ( 88 ) Progression to overt hypothyroidism ( 89 ) Independent risk factor for atherosclerosis ( 90 ) Increased risk of coronary artery disease ( 91 - 93 ) Increased frequency of congestive heart failure ( 91 , 93 , 94 ) Adverse effects on vascular compliance ( 95 - 97 ) Abnormal cardiac function may improve with treatment ( 98 ) Beneficial effect of treatment on lipids ( 99 , 100 ) Increased prevalence of depressive illness ( 101 ) Impaired fibrinolysis ( 102 ) Subclinical Hyperthyroidism NATURAL HISTORY OF SUBCLINICAL HYPERTHYROIDISM Follow up studies suggest that spontaneous progression to overt hyperthyroidism is uncommon and that subnormal-detectable levels of TSH in the range 0.05-0.4 mU/l frequently return to normal within one year ( 87 ). Meyerovitch et al. ( 103 ) reported the results of sequential tests of thyroid function over a 5-year period in a large community-based cohort. During the follow-up period, test results returned to normal in 27%, 62% and 51% respectively of untreated patients whose initial serum TSH values were >10 mU/l, 5.5-10 mU/l and < 0.35 mU/l ( 103 ). While some subjects did show progression, the high chance of resolution towards normal suggests that retesting after follow-up, possibly after at least 6 months, is advisable before considering any intervention. However, quantitative conclusions from that retrospective study may be insecure, as many subjects with abnormal TSH were excluded from follow-up because they were treated after their initial result ( 103 ). If those treated were the more severely affected, whether based on symptoms, presence of goiter, or degree of TSH abnormality, the analysis may over-estimate the likelihood of resolution during follow-up. Spontaneous remission of
