Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


were the more severely affected, whether based on symptoms, presence of goiter, or degree of TSH abnormality, the analysis may over-estimate the likelihood of resolution during follow-up. Spontaneous remission of subclinical hyperthyroidism may occur more frequently in Graves’ disease than in nodular thyroid disorders ( 104 ). However, in a recent study from UK ( 105 ), a third each of 84 patients with subclinical hyperthyroidism due to Graves’ disease progressed, normalized, or remained in the subclinically hyperthyroid state. Older people and those with positive anti-thyroperoxidase antibodies had a higher risk of progression of the disease. These data need to be verified and confirmed in larger cohorts and over longer periods of follow-up. The chance of spontaneous progression to overt hyperthyroidism appears to be no greater than 10% per year ( 87 , 104 ), or even lower, and also seems dependent on the cause of subclinical hyperthyroidism (Graves’ or multinodular) ( 106 ). However, it should be noted that the transition from autoimmune subclinical to overt hyperthyroidism can occur more rapidly than is generally the case in immune hypothyroidism ( 107 ). CARDIOVASCULAR EFFECTS From the Framingham study it was found that undetected subclinical hyperthyroidism, defined only by suppression of TSH, carried a three-fold increased risk of atrial fibrillation within 10 years ( 78 ). As yet, there is no study that shows that treatment given on the basis of low TSH alone, modifies this risk ( 108 ), although it is clear that survival is adversely affected by atrial fibrillation ( 109 ). In a large cohort study, endogenous subclinical hyperthyroidism is associated with increased risks of total and coronary heart disease mortality, and incident atrial fibrillation, with highest risks of coronary heart disease mortality and atrial fibrillation when the TSH concentration was lower than 0.10 mIU/L ( 110 ). A recent meta-analysis of prospective cohorts found an increased risk of coronary heart disease (relative risk (RR) 1.20; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.02-1.42), total mortality (RR = 1.27; 95% CI, 1.07-1.51), and coronary heart disease mortality (RR = 1.45; 95% CI, 1.12-1.86) from subclinical hyperthyroidism, while this was not the case for subclinical hypothyroidism ( 111 ). Another group also analyzed prospective cohorts in a systematic review and meta-analysis ( 112 ) and found that higher free T4 levels at baseline in euthyroid individuals were associated with an increased risk of atrial fibrillation in age- and sex-adjusted analyses
