Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


meta-analysis ( 112 ) and found that higher free T4 levels at baseline in euthyroid individuals were associated with an increased risk of atrial fibrillation in age- and sex-adjusted analyses (hazard ratio, 1.45; 95% confidence interval, 1.26-1.66, for the highest quartile versus the lowest quartile of free T4; P for trend ≤0.001 across quartiles). Estimates did not substantially differ after further adjustment for preexisting cardiovascular disease. Thus, in euthyroid individuals, higher circulating free T4 levels, but not TSH levels, were associated with increased risk of incident atrial fibrillation ( 112 ). These results, however, need verification in prospective studies. Finally, impaired left ventricular ejection fraction and reduced exercise capacity have been documented in subclinical hyperthyroidism due to high dosage thyroxine and may be alleviated by beta blockade ( 113 ). IODINE-INDUCED THYROTOXICOSIS Undiagnosed subclinical hyperthyroidism due to autonomous nodular thyroid disease, a condition especially prevalent in iodine deficient regions, carries the risk of progression to severe overt thyrotoxicosis after iodine exposure ( 114 ). An Australian study from a region that is not known to be iodine deficient, was suggestive of recent iodine exposure, most often from radiologic contrast agents, in up to 25% of elderly thyrotoxic patients ( 81 ). Prior knowledge of subnormal serum TSH may identify a high-risk group with thyroid autonomy in whom iodine exposure carries the risk of iatrogenic hyperthyroidism ( 115 , 116 ). Prophylactic drugs could be considered in high-risk populations, such as administration of perchlorate and/or a thionamide class drug to elderly patients with suppressed TSH and/or palpable goiter ( 115 ). OSTEOPOROSIS While longstanding overt hyperthyroidism is an important risk factor for osteoporosis, the association has until recently been less clear for subclinical hyperthyroidism. Overt hyperthyroidism is associated with reduced bone density, predominantly affecting cortical rather than trabecular bone, so that the femoral neck is more affected than the lumbar spine, associated with an increase in fracture rate ( 117 ). It has now been shown that women over 65 with suppressed TSH are at increased risk of hip and vertebral fractures ( 85 ), and low bone mineral density was also demonstrated both at the femoral neck even with normal peripheral thyroid hormones ( 118 ). A recent meta-analysis ( 119 ) analyzed associations between subclinical thyroid dysfunction and fracture or bone mineral density. A total of 19 population-based cohorts including 79,368 participants with relationships between subclinical thyroid dysfunction and
