Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


119 ) analyzed associations between subclinical thyroid dysfunction and fracture or bone mineral density. A total of 19 population-based cohorts including 79,368 participants with relationships between subclinical thyroid dysfunction and fractures or bone mineral density were identified as eligible for this meta-analysis. Subclinical hyperthyroidism was associated with RRs of 1.71 for spine fractures, 1.20 for non-spine fractures, 1.44 for hip fractures, and 1.38 for any location of fractures. The results were similar according to whether thyroid/anti-thyroid drug users were excluded or not. The change in bone mineral density at the hip and femoral neck was significantly decreased in the subclinical hyperthyroidism group compared with the euthyroidism groups in females. Although the overall quality of evidence was low in all outcomes, subclinical hyperthyroidism was associated with an increased risk of fractures related to reduced bone mineral density. Notably, in a controlled trial of suppressive T4 treatment for multinodular goiter, TSH suppression without clear excess of serum T4 or T3 resulted in a mean 3.6% decrease in lumbar spine density within 2 years ( 74 ). Normalization of serum TSH resulted in normalization of the bone mineral density in postmenopausal women. Subclinical Hypothyroidism NATURAL HISTORY OF SUBCLINICAL HYPOTHYROIDISM The benchmark study of thyroid epidemiology from Wickham, UK ( 119 ), showed that the likelihood of overt hypothyroidism after 20 years was directly related to the initial serum TSH concentration, even when the concentration was in the range between 2 to 4 mU/l, within the upper reference interval. The study by Meyerovitch et al. ( 103 ) showed that with the initial serum TSH in the range 5.5-10 mU/l, the chance of normalization after prolonged follow-up was greater than the chance of progression to TSH levels >10 mU/l (see above). The antibody status was unfortunately not assessed in that cohort. Huber et al. ( 87 ) followed 82 Swiss women with subclinical hypothyroidism, with normal free T4 and serum TSH >4 mU/l, for a mean of 9.2 years ( Figure 2 ). About half of their cohort had had previous ablative treatment for Graves’ disease. The cumulative incidence of overt hypothyroidism, defined here as low free T4 with TSH >20 mU/l, was directly related to the initial serum TSH, with 55% of women with initial serum TSH >6 mU/l progressing to overt hypothyroidism. Progression was not uniform, and over half of the cohort showed no deterioration of thyroid function, but positive microsomal antibodies
