Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


with initial serum TSH >6 mU/l progressing to overt hypothyroidism. Progression was not uniform, and over half of the cohort showed no deterioration of thyroid function, but positive microsomal antibodies (corresponding to the more specific thyroperoxidase antibodies) increased the likelihood of progression. It is now clear that the opposite sequence may also occur, with spontaneous normalization of elevated TSH values ( 103 , 120 ). In a cardiovascular health study ( 121 ), subclinical hypothyroidism persisted for 4 years in just over half of older individuals, with high rates of reversion to euthyroidism in individuals with lower TSH concentrations and thyroperoxidase antibody negativity. It was advised that future studies should examine the impact of transitions in thyroid status on clinical outcomes ( 121 ). Rosario et al. found that most of 241 women with mild TSH elevations ranging from 4.5 to 10 mIU/l did not progress to overt hypothyroidism and even normalized their serum TSH. However, initial TSH seemed to be a more important predictor of progression than the presence of antibodies or ultrasonographic appearance ( 122 ). In a prospective study from China, patients >40 years of age, i.e. a younger mean age than most studies, with higher baseline total cholesterol or positive thyroid peroxidase antibodies, had higher risks of progression to overt hypothyroidism, while those with higher baseline creatinine, higher baseline TSH (≥7 mIU/L, p <0.001), or older age (>60 years vs. ≤50 years, p =0.012), had lower odds of reverting to euthyroidism. They concluded that thyroperoxidase antibodies and total cholesterol seemed to be more important predictors of progression to overt hypothyroidism than the initial TSH concentration, whereas high baseline TSH or creatinine were negatively correlated with reversion to euthyroidism. The prognostic value of total cholesterol and creatinine should therefore be considered in mild subclinical hypothyroidism ( 123 ). Notably, a prospective study showed that the progression of autoimmune subclinical hypothyroidism tends to be slower than for subclinical hyperthyroidism ( 107 ). Hence, there is a need for prolonged follow-up and patient education, if the decision to treat is deferred. Figure 2. Kaplan-Meier estimates of the cumulative incidence of overt hypothyroidism in women with subclinical hypothyroidism (initial serum TSH >4 mU/l) as a function of initial serum TSH, thyroid secretory reserve in response to oral thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) and detectable microsomal antibodies. Serum TSH appears to be the strongest of these predictors (from reference ( 89 )).
