Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


thyroid secretory reserve in response to oral thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) and detectable microsomal antibodies. Serum TSH appears to be the strongest of these predictors (from reference ( 89 )). ATHEROSCLEROSIS AND VASCULAR COMPLIANCE As mentioned earlier, subclinical hypothyroidism, or mild thyroid failure, was shown to be an independent risk factor for both myocardial infarction and radiologically-visible aortic atherosclerosis in a study of Dutch women over 55 years of age ( 90 ). This effect was independent of body mass index, total and HDL cholesterol, blood pressure, and smoking status. The attributable risk for subclinical hypothyroidism was comparable to that for the other major risk factors, hypercholesterolemia, hypertension, smoking, and diabetes mellitus. The association was slightly stronger when subclinical hypothyroidism was associated with positive peroxidase antibodies, but thyroid autoimmunity itself was not an independent risk factor ( 124 ). A systematic review and meta-analysis of 27 studies demonstrated a significant association of subclinical hypothyroidism and cardiovascular risk with arterial wall thickening and stiffening as well as endothelial dysfunction. However, sustained subclinical thyroid dysfunction did not affect the baseline or development of carotid plaques in healthy individuals ( 125 ). In cross-sectional studies, carotid artery-intima media thickness was significantly higher in participants with subclinical hypothyroidism compared to euthyroid controls ( 126 ). Small interventional studies suggested that restoring euthyroidism in patients with subclinical hypothyroidism is associated with regression of carotid atherosclerosis ( 126 , 127 ). However, these trials had major limitations, with uncontrolled study designs and/or small sample sizes (the largest included only 45 participants with subclinical hypothyroidism ( 127 ). Although well known in overt hypothyroidism ( 128 ), the finding of impaired flow-mediated, endothelium-dependent vasodilatation in subjects with borderline hypothyroidism or high-normal serum TSH values ( 95 ) was at first unexpected. Baseline artery diameter and forearm flow were comparable, but flow mediated vasodilatation during the period of reactive hyperemia was significantly impaired even in the group with serum TSH of 2-4 mU/l, compared with the group with serum TSH 0.4-2 mU/l ( 95 ). The difference could not be attributed to a difference in maximal nitrate-induced vasodilatation, age, sex, hypertension, diabetes, smoking, serum cholesterol, or levels of total T3 and T4 ( 91 ). This finding suggested that even a minor deviation from an individual’s pituitary-thyroid set point may be associated with alteration in vasodilatory response. There is no known direct action of TSH that would account
