Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


that even a minor deviation from an individual’s pituitary-thyroid set point may be associated with alteration in vasodilatory response. There is no known direct action of TSH that would account for this effect. A Japanese placebo-controlled study of women aged 60-70 with subclinical hypothyroidism with mean pre-treatment serum TSH of 7.3 mU/l showed improvement in pulse wave velocity, an index of vascular stiffness, in response to TSH normalization for 2 months by progressive low dose T4 replacement only up to 37.5 ug/day ( 96 ). Thyroxine replacement for 18 months has been reported to improve blood pressure, lipids, and carotid intimal thickness in women with subclinical hypothyroidism ( 129 ). In a larger properly powered randomized placebo-controlled trial normalization of TSH with levothyroxine was associated with no difference in carotid intima-media thickness and carotid atherosclerosis in older persons with subclinical hypothyroidism ( 130 ); a meta-analysis of 12 studies showed ( 131 ) that carotid intima-media thickness was significantly higher among subjects with subclinical hypothyroidism (n=280) as compared to euthyroid controls (n=263) at baseline. This meta-analysis showed that thyroxine therapy in subjects with subclinical hypothyroidism significantly decreased carotid intimal thickness and improves lipid profiles, modifiable cardiovascular risk factors. One of the big differences between these publications was the age difference; the subjects were younger in the meta-analysis ( 131 ), while the patients in the other publications were all older and not included in the meta-analysis, which was published earlier. The same was the case in another more recent meta-analysis, including only 3 randomized clinical trials in younger patients with subclinical hypothyroidism ( 132 ). They also found a decreasing carotid intimal thickness with levothyroxine therapy. Thyroid hormone replacement in younger subjects with subclinical hypothyroidism may thus play a role in slowing down or preventing the progression of atherosclerosis ( 131 , 132 ), but there is still no such evidence in older individuals. LIPIDS Overt hypothyroidism is associated with an increase in the serum cholesterol concentration ( 133 ) and correction of overt hypothyroidism resulted in a decrease in total and low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, apolipoprotein A1, apo B and apo E, and serum triglyceride concentrations may also decrease ( 134 , 135 ). A defect in receptor-mediated LDL catabolism, similar to that seen in familial hypercholesterolemia, has been described in severe overt hypothyroidism ( 136 ), but there is no evidence to support such an abnormality in
