Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


LDL catabolism, similar to that seen in familial hypercholesterolemia, has been described in severe overt hypothyroidism ( 136 ), but there is no evidence to support such an abnormality in mild thyroid failure. At the other extreme, several large population studies reported a positive correlation between serum lipids and serum TSH across its normal range ( 137 ), a correlation also associated with increasing blood pressure ( 138 ). The clinical impact of these associations remains unknown. The Colorado study including over 25,000 subjects showed a continuous graded increase in serum cholesterol over a range of serum TSH values from <0.3 to >60 mU/l ( 64 ). However, there is still no consensus that mild thyroid failure has an adverse effect on plasma lipids, or that T4 treatment sufficient to normalize isolated TSH elevations has a beneficial effect. A meta-analysis suggests that T4 treatment of subjects with mild thyroid failure does lower the mean total and LDL cholesterol, and is without effect on high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol or triglyceride levels ( 99 ). In a prospective double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of thyroxine in subclinical hypothyroidism in which the response was carefully monitored with TSH, Meier et al. ( 100 ) reported that the decrease in LDL cholesterol was more pronounced with higher initial TSH levels >12 mU/l or with elevated baseline LDL concentrations, but also here the clinical impact remains unknown. It remains uncertain whether the serum concentration of the highly atherogenic Lp(a) particle is increased in overt hypothyroidism and whether T4 treatment sufficient to normalize TSH has a favorable influence. Serum concentrations of Lp(a) have been found to be increased in overt hypothyroidism with normalization after treatment in some studies ( 139 , 140 ) while others fail to confirm this finding ( 141 , 142 ). Finally, in 100 women with subclinical hypothyroidism selected among 87 obese women aged between 50 and 70 years, total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol and triglycerides concentrations as well as LDL-C/HDL-C ratio and Castelli index were higher in subclinical hypothyroidism than in controls and decreased after levothyroxine substitution. All the calculated atherosclerosis indexes showed significant positive correlations with TSH concentrations in the subclinical hypothyroidism group. Also, in this group the systolic and diastolic blood pressure decreased significantly after treatment. Thus, dyslipidemia in obese subclinical hypothyroidism women is not severe, but if untreated for many years, it is assumed to lead to atherosclerosis. Substitution therapy improved
