Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


decreased significantly after treatment. Thus, dyslipidemia in obese subclinical hypothyroidism women is not severe, but if untreated for many years, it is assumed to lead to atherosclerosis. Substitution therapy improved the lipid profile, changing the relations between protective and proatherogenic fractions of serum lipids, and it optimizes blood pressure ( 143 ), which by itself does not prove a positive clinical outcome. CARDIAC FUNCTION From echocardiographic studies, there is evidence that mild thyroid failure can significantly increase systemic vascular resistance and impair cardiac systolic and diastolic function ( 144 ), as demonstrated by decreased flow velocity across the aortic and mitral valves ( 98 ). These changes, which were associated with reduced cardiorespiratory work capacity during maximal exercise, were reversed by T4 treatment sufficient to normalize serum TSH ( 98 ). Impairment of both diastolic and systolic function was demonstrable by echocardiography in a subclinically hypothyroid group of patients with TSH in the range 4-12 mU/l ( 98 ). Thyroxine treatment sufficient to normalize TSH to a mean of 1.3 mU/l for 6 months was associated with improvement in myocardial contractility ( 98 ). Calculation of a global myocardial performance index from the echocardiographic findings also confirmed significantly higher scores in hypothyroid patients in comparison to the control group, showing that regression in global left ventricular functions is an important echocardiographic finding ( 145 ). A very recent small study of 20 young patients with autoimmune subclinical hypothyroidism used cardiac magnetic resonance for a myocardial longitudinal relaxation time (T1) mapping technique and demonstrated significant diffuse myocardial injury ( 146 ), which may explain results of the cardiac function studies and also provide a novel method for early detection of cardiac dysfunction in subclinical hypothyroidism. Future studies are required to determine the effects of the above finding on long-term cardiovascular outcomes and how these reversible abnormalities relate to cardiovascular prognosis. INSULIN SENSITIVITY AND METABOLIC SYNDROME Several studies suggested that there may be a link between insulin sensitivity, serum lipids, and thyroid function, whether assessed by serum TSH or circulating thyroid hormone levels. Bakker et al. ( 147 ) noted that while serum TSH showed no overall correlation with insulin sensitivity or serum lipids, there was a complex interaction between these variables such that the association between TSH and LDL-C was much stronger in insulin- resistant than in insulin- sensitive subjects. The same group showed that low free T4 levels within the
