Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


such that the association between TSH and LDL-C was much stronger in insulin- resistant than in insulin- sensitive subjects. The same group showed that low free T4 levels within the reference range are dually associated with LDL-C and insulin resistance ( 148 ). Further results will show whether these findings account for the purported link between subclinical hypothyroidism and the metabolic syndrome ( 149 ) and whether this link contributes to increased cardiovascular risk in a subgroup of patients with subclinical hypothyroidism. Notably, there is a positive correlation between serum TSH and BMI in euthyroid obese women ( 9 , 150 ). The results of a population study suggest that thyroid function (also within the reference range) could be one of several factors acting in concert to determine body weight in a population. Even slightly elevated serum TSH levels were associated with an increase in the occurrence of obesity ( 151 ). Furthermore, a recent cross-sectional study in a sample of 753 subjects (46% males) aged 35-70 years who had no history of diabetes, renal, hepatic, thyroid, or coronary heart disease, and were participants of the Genetics of Atherosclerotic Disease study indicated that subclinical hypothyroidism was associated with fatty liver together with increased odds of metabolic syndrome, insulin resistance, and coronary artery calcification, independent of potential confounders ( 152 ). Finally, subclinical hypothyroidism has been suspected to be related to polycystic ovary syndrome, since subclinical hypothyroidism is present in 10-25% of women with polycystic ovary syndrome. However, a recent meta-analysis of 12 studies found that subclinical hypothyroidism did not influence the hormonal profile of women with polycystic ovary syndrome. On the other hand, it resulted in mild metabolic abnormalities, which are, however, not clinically important in a short-term setting ( 153 ). The value of routine thyroid testing in the above groups remains uncertain ( 154 ). The metabolic syndrome and subclinical hypothyroidism are both highly prevalent in the general population. Cross-sectional epidemiological data suggest that a mutual association exists between the two, although the cause–effect relationship remains poorly elucidated. As subclinical hypothyroidism raises cholesterol, blood pressure, and visceral fat, it is easy to understand why it associates with metabolic syndrome ( 155 ). Rather, the reasons whereby patients with metabolic syndrome are at higher risk for subclinical hypothyroidism are less apparent. Some studies have reported that subclinical hypothyroidism is itself characterized by high cardiovascular risk. Therefore, the coexistence of
