Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


metabolic syndrome are at higher risk for subclinical hypothyroidism are less apparent. Some studies have reported that subclinical hypothyroidism is itself characterized by high cardiovascular risk. Therefore, the coexistence of subclinical hypothyroidism and metabolic syndrome may identify subjects at a particularly high risk for future cardiovascular events. Recent data indicated that carotid intima-media thickness, a marker of initial atherosclerosis and a possible predictor of future events, was higher in patients with both subclinical hypothyroidism and metabolic syndrome than in the presence of each condition alone. To date, it remains unclear whether any biological relationship between subclinical hypothyroidism and the metabolic syndrome truly exists and what the underlying mechanisms might be. Nonetheless, given the high prevalence of both conditions, and the observed associations, it is of interest to investigate whether their mutual presence confers a higher cardiovascular disease risk. If confirmed in larger studies, these results may be clinically relevant, suggesting that subclinical hypothyroidism should be investigated in patients with metabolic syndrome to better individualize therapy and counter cardiovascular risk ( 156 ). OSTEOPOROSIS From a previously mentioned study ( 118 ), subclinical hypothyroidism was associated with RRs of 1.34 (95% CI 1.14-1.58; I 2 =32%) for hip fracture, 1.27 (95% CI 1.02-1.58; I 2 =51.9%) for any location of fracture, and 1.25 (95% CI 1.04-1.50) for forearm fracture. The authors failed to find any associations between the change in bone mineral density and subclinical hypothyroidism but subclinical hypothyroidism was associated with an increased risk of fractures. Although subclinical hyperthyroidism was related to reduced bone mineral density, there is no evidence of a definite association between subclinical hypothyroidism and the risk of low bone mineral density. NEUROBEHAVIORAL EFFECTS AND QUALITY OF LIFE It is well known that overt thyroid dysfunction can include psychological or psychiatric symptomatology. A small retrospective study has shown a 2-3 fold increased frequency of previous depression in subjects with mild thyroid failure ( 101 ); T4 treatment has been reported to improve neuropsychological responses in this group ( 157 ). However, contrary to these findings, more recent controlled studies of unselected patients suggest that subclinical hypothyroidism is not associated with any consistent deficit in quality of life indices or improvement with treatment ( 158 , 159 ). This was very recently confirmed in the TRUST trial using the thyroid patient reported outcome (ThyPRO) questionnaire in older adults with subclinical hypothyroidism; in that study, therapy with levothyroxine did
