Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


This was very recently confirmed in the TRUST trial using the thyroid patient reported outcome (ThyPRO) questionnaire in older adults with subclinical hypothyroidism; in that study, therapy with levothyroxine did not improve symptoms or tiredness compared with placebo ( 160 ). STUDIES IN CHILDREN A study by Cerbone et al. ( 161 ) has shown that long-term idiopathic subclinical hypothyroidism did not appear to have an adverse effect on linear growth or intellectual development in children aged 4-18 years. More recently, a meta-analysis including nine studies demonstrated that subclinical hypothyroidism in children is a remitting process with a low risk of evolution toward overt hypothyroidism. Most of the subjects reverted to euthyroidism or remained subclinically hypothyroid, with a rate of evolution toward overt hypothyroidism ranging between 0 and 28.8%, with a rate of 50% in only one study. The initial presence of goiter and elevated thyroglobulin antibodies, the presence of celiac disease, and a progressive increase in thyroperoxidase antibodies and TSH value predict progression toward overt hypothyroidism. Replacement therapy is not indicated in children with subclinical hypothyroidism with TSH 5-10 mU/l, absence of goiter, and negative antithyroid antibodies. An increased growth velocity was observed in children treated with levothyroxine in two studies. Levothyroxine reduced thyroid volume in 25-100% of children with subclinical hypothyroidism and autoimmune thyroiditis in two studies. No effects were seen on neuropsychological functions in one study, and posttreatment evolution of subclinical hypothyroidism was reported in one study ( 162 ). Hence, it may be justifiable to follow this group without early recourse to lifelong replacement. On the other hand, the association with Hashimoto’s thyroiditis exerted a negative influence on the evolution over time of mild subclinical hypothyroidism, irrespective of other concomitant risk factors. In children – unlike in adults - with mild and subclinical hypothyroidism related to Hashimoto’s thyroiditis, the risk of a deterioration in thyroid status over time is high (53.1%), while the probability of spontaneous TSH normalization is relatively low (21.9%). In contrast, children with mild and idiopathic subclinical hypothyroidism, had a very low risk of a deterioration in thyroid status over time (11.1%), whereas the probability of spontaneous TSH normalization was high (41.1%) ( 163 ). Safety and Effectiveness of Treatment of Subclinical Thyroid Dysfunction The benefits of early diagnosis and treatment are self-evident from the obvious decline in hospitalization and mortality rates for severe thyroid dysfunction over the past decades. Before reliable tests
