Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


Dysfunction The benefits of early diagnosis and treatment are self-evident from the obvious decline in hospitalization and mortality rates for severe thyroid dysfunction over the past decades. Before reliable tests of thyroid function became widely used, severe hyperthyroidism approaching thyroid storm and hypothyroidism with impending myxedema coma occurred quite regularly, but these presentations are now very uncommon ( 164 , 165 ). While the arguments for seeking and treating mild thyroid dysfunction are less compelling, there may be potential benefits for large numbers of people. The points in favor of treating mild thyroid dysfunction relate directly to the adverse consequences listed in Table 4 , but for many of these adverse outcomes there is still a lack of long-term studies that show benefit as illustrated in a very recent randomized, double-blind placebo-controlled trial nested within the TRUST trial, which found that normalization of TSH with levothyroxine in people >65 years was associated with no difference in carotid-intima media thickness and carotid atherosclerosis by ultrasound in older persons with subclinical hypothyroidism ( 130 ). On the basis of potential benefit from simple straightforward treatment and absence of adverse effects, the argument for active treatment is generally stronger for mild thyroid failure than for subclinical hyperthyroidism. Conservative T4 therapy aimed at normalizing TSH is simple, inexpensive and generally safe ( 166 ), although replacement may not be warranted in the older adults with very advanced age ( 167 ). Where cardiovascular disease precludes full thyroid hormone replacement, detailed evaluation of the cardiac abnormality is appropriate ( 168 , 169 ). In contrast, treatment of subclinical hyperthyroidism needs to be evaluated in relation to adverse drug effects and the potential for hypothyroidism. It is, however, prudent to take into consideration an effect and consequence of suppressed serum TSH on atrial fibrillation, bone loss, depression, quality of life and mortality when counseling individual patients. In younger patients there may be a benefit of early treatment of subclinical hypothyroidism ( 170 ) although the studies supporting this approach were not placebo-controlled and only used surrogate endpoints in small cohorts. USE OF LABORATORY ASSAYS FOR CASE FINDING AND SCREENING If the identification of abnormal thyroid function is to be based on laboratory testing, it is desirable that population reference intervals should not vary between methods. As recently emphasized, serum T3, T4 and serum TSH concentrations are among the many hormone variables where between-assay standardization is crucial
