Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


that population reference intervals should not vary between methods. As recently emphasized, serum T3, T4 and serum TSH concentrations are among the many hormone variables where between-assay standardization is crucial to ensure optimal assay specificity ( 171 ). At present, that aim is not satisfactory for free T4 estimates, a problem that is particularly troublesome during pregnancy (see below). Analytically, serum TSH, total T4 and total T3 are well standardized, so that considerations of so-called normal ranges relate to the clinically relevant issues. By contrast, the diverse, ingenious manoeuvres involved in the estimation of free T4 and T3 lead to poor standardization between methods, so that method-specific reference intervals need to be used, both for individual clinical diagnosis and population studies. Between-method free T4 variations are especially troublesome in pregnancy and critical illness (see below). TSH Reference Interval or “Normal Range” For serum TSH, arguably the most important variable for the diagnosis of primary thyroid dysfunction, no firm consensus range has been agreed, despite reliable standardization between methods. Firstly, a reference interval for the diagnosis of hypothyroidism in adults may be far too broad and lenient to identify women whose fertility or pregnancy outcome might be improved by thyroid supplementation. Second, it has been shown that the reference TSH set-point for each individual can be defined with a narrow band of the broad population range ( 172 , 173 ) (see below). Third, criteria for the new diagnosis of thyroid dysfunction may not be the same as those required for optimal adjustment of therapy. Fourth, for population studies, whether screening or case-finding, a reference interval with higher sensitivity will have lower specificity. Thus, the controversies as to whether the standard TSH reference interval of about 0.4–4.0 mU/l should be narrowed, with lowering of the upper limit ( 70 ), or retained ( 174 - 176 ) do not address the needs of individuals. Population studies to define the upper limit of the “normal range” for serum TSH will be influenced by whether those with positive thyroperoxidase antibodies are excluded (see below) ( 63 , 177 , 178 ). However, even after exclusion of individuals with clinical, antibodies, or sonographic evidence of any thyroid disorder, Hamilton et al. supported an upper reference limit at about 4 mU/l ( 176 ), although quite different criteria may apply around pregnancy (see below). Ethnic differences ( 179 ), as well as differences and time
