Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


the normal reference range at about 0.4 mU/l and the typical suppressed TSH values found in hyperthyroidism. While some subjects with subnormal-detectable TSH values do progress to overt hyperthyroidism, values in this range may also revert to normal (see above). There are some clinical situations in which assessment of thyroid function will give a high prevalence of abnormalities that cannot be interpreted with certainty. Notably, glucocorticoids and dopaminergic agents have a potent effect to suppress TSH secretion ( 45 , 187 ), while TSH is also frequently subnormal in starvation or caloric deprivation ( 188 ). Transient increases to above normal can occur in euthyroid subjects during recovery from critical illness ( 178 , 189 - 191 ). The finding that 33% of serum TSH values fell more than 2 standard deviations (SD) from the geometric mean in acutely hospitalized patients, with 17% of values more than 3 SD from the mean value, indicates that TSH concentrations lack diagnostic specificity in this setting ( 192 ). A serum free T4 estimate will generally follow from an abnormal TSH concentration, but during critical illness, free T4 estimates often show non-specific abnormalities (see below) ( 193 ). Lack of specificity was the basis for a recommendation against routine assessment of serum TSH and free T4 during acute critical illness in the absence of risk factors, or clinical features suggestive of a thyroid disorder ( 194 ). Testing of thyroid function is appropriate in a wide range of psychiatric disorders, but diagnostic specificity is limited by a high prevalence of transient non-specific abnormalities at the time of acute psychiatric admission ( 195 ). Thus, laboratory evaluation should be delayed for 2-3 weeks after acute presentation, unless there are specific risk factors for thyroid dysfunction ( 196 ). Potential Adverse Effects of Testing In terms of potential for adverse effects, there may be important differences between screening of unselected populations and the case-finding strategy that is now recommended for thyroid dysfunction. There are no reports of a “labelling effect” (i.e. perception of chronic illness in previously asymptomatic subjects), described in hypertension screening programs ( 197 ), when testing for thyroid dysfunction is done at the time of presentation for medical care. Nevertheless, further attention needs to be given to the potential for unwarranted treatment based on false positive results, as well as the cost of follow-up investigations for perceived abnormalities that may not warrant
