Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


needs to be given to the potential for unwarranted treatment based on false positive results, as well as the cost of follow-up investigations for perceived abnormalities that may not warrant treatment at any stage. In particular, there is a need for clinical consensus as to how marginally abnormal results should be classified. Widespread laboratory testing will lead to an increase in the number of false positive results; the potential for a diagnostic method to give misleading variations from normal may not become known for some years until the full diversity of the non-diseased population is documented ( 198 ). Follow-up of Abnormal Results If serum TSH is used as a single initial test for case-finding, a value outside the reference interval should lead to estimation of serum free T4 on the same sample, if possible, without recall of the patient. This requires an algorithm-based testing protocol, which should also include measurement of serum free T3 if TSH is suppressed, to identify T3 toxicosis. It may also be relevant to measure thyroid peroxidase antibodies if TSH is increased, so as to define an autoimmune mechanism of hypothyroidism, particularly as a raised level of these antibodies is associated with an increased likelihood of progression to overt hypothyroidism ( 61 , 178 ). For screening or case-finding to be effective, patients with unsuspected overt thyroid dysfunction should be actively traced because they will benefit most from treatment and have the most to lose if the abnormal finding is ignored. For mild thyroid dysfunction, a practitioner who has continuing contact with the patient should evaluate the assay result in clinical context and initiate any necessary follow-up. However, there is currently no consensus as to how an appropriate clinical response to abnormal laboratory findings can be assured. A transition towards identification of thyroid dysfunction by laboratory measurement, rather than on clinical criteria, modifies, but does not diminish the role of the clinician. The severity of thyroid dysfunction cannot be judged from the extent of the laboratory abnormality ( 198 , 199 ), which indicates neither the duration of exposure, nor individual susceptibility. Whether a decision is made to treat or to observe, patient education is crucial in establishing effective compliance and rational cost-effective long-term follow-up. Computer based programs can identify affected individuals, but do not replace direct involvement of both patient and clinician. There may be potential medicolegal consequences of failure to respond to abnormal
