Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


Computer based programs can identify affected individuals, but do not replace direct involvement of both patient and clinician. There may be potential medicolegal consequences of failure to respond to abnormal results, if widespread laboratory testing is initiated without an established follow-up plan. INTERPRETATION OF TSH AND T4 ASSAYS The TSH-T4 Relationship Definitive assessment of thyroid status requires both a sensitive serum TSH assay and a valid T4 estimate, with interpretation based on the relationship between these two values. It is generally assumed that inverse TSH responses to changes in free T4 are approximately logarithmic ( 59 ) ( Figure 3 ). While this concept is useful, recent data suggests that the relationship varies with thyroid status, age, sex, smoking and thyroid autoantibody status ( 200 - 203 ) with progressively greater amplification of the TSH response as thyroid function declines. Diurnal variation in serum TSH, with amplitude about 50% with higher levels between 2100 and 0600, is superimposed on rapid pulse secretion with amplitude about 10%. Basal secretion and pulsatility are both increased in primary hypothyroidism, with retention of diurnal variation ( 204 ). Figure 3. The relationship between serum TSH and free T4 estimate in ambulatory individuals with stable thyroid function and normal hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid function (adapted from reference ( 178 ) with permission). Because of the feedback relationship between tropic and target gland hormones, typical disease-related changes lead to diagonal deviations from the normal T4-TSH relationship. ( figure 4 ). Figure 4. The relationship between serum TSH and free T4 concentration is shown for normal subjects (N) and in the typical abnormalities of thyroid function: A, primary hypothyroidism; B, central or pituitary-dependent hypothyroidism; C, hyperthyroidism due to autonomy or abnormal stimulation of the gland; D, TSH-dependent hyperthyroidism or thyroid hormone resistance. Note that linear changes in the concentration of T4 correspond approximately to logarithmic changes in serum TSH ( 178 ). The T4-TSH Setpoint Small changes in serum T4 and T3 concentrations, within the normal range, alter the serum TSH concentration, indicating that the inverse feedback relationship between serum free T4 and TSH applies across their normal ranges, as well as in disease states ( 205 , 206 ). Studies of normal subjects demonstrate significant individual variation, independent of sex and age, in the setpoint of the pituitary-thyroid axis ( 172 , 173 , 207 ), which suggests that the TSH set-point for a particular serum free T4 or
