Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


sex and age, in the setpoint of the pituitary-thyroid axis ( 172 , 173 , 207 ), which suggests that the TSH set-point for a particular serum free T4 or free T3 concentration is an individual characteristic. It follows that the concept of “normality” for an individual may be narrower than for a population at-large. Studies of monozygotic and dizygotic twin pairs also suggest that genetic factors influence the serum concentrations of total and free T4 within the normal range ( 208 ), as well as the relationship between TSH and free T3 and T4 ( 209 , 210 ). The recent demonstration ( 211 ) that multiple genetic factors can influence inter-individual differences in the TSH response to circulating thyroid hormones may ultimately increase the precision and the complexity of interpreting thyroid function are also reviewed recently ( 212 , 213 ). Andersen et al. ( 173 ), in a study of normal subjects whose samples were taken monthly between 09:00 and 12:00 for a year, showed that individual references ranges for T4 and T3 were only about half the width of the population reference ranges, indicating that a test result within the population range is not necessarily normal for that individual. Serum TSH showed greater between-sample variation for each individual than serum T4 or T3. Based on the degree of individual variation, it was estimated that a normal serum TSH concentration needed to change by 0.2-1.6 mU/l to be confident of a serial change in thyroid status. Based on this analysis, it was estimated that a single morning sample defined serum T4 and T3 to within 25%, and serum TSH only to within 50%. Since TSH shows diurnal variation and pulsatile secretion in both normal and hypothyroid subjects ( 204 , 214 ), random samples are likely to show even greater variation. This concept can also be described as individuality index ( 166 ). It has been suggested that some healthy older adults have normal serum TSH concentrations despite having low serum free T4 values, attributed to resetting of the threshold for TSH inhibition ( 215 ). In a large cohort of Danish patients with newly diagnosed hypothyroidism, the increase in serum TSH for a given degree of lowering of serum free T4 was less in the elderly, suggesting that equivalent TSH increases in the elderly may be accompanied by more severe thyroid hormone deficiency ( 216 ).
