Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


230 ) Spurious immunoassay results ( 178 ) TSH ( 178 ) Heterophilic antibodies ( 231 , 232 ) Free T4 Abnormal serum binding proteins ( 233 ) Autoantibodies ( 234 ) Medications that inhibit protein binding ( 233 , 235 )( 227 , 229 ) Heparin artefact ( 236 , 237 ) 5. The assay can reliably distinguish low from normal values Lack of precision at the limit of detection ( 178 , 238 ) 6. Reference ranges are appropriate Influence of age ( 239 , 240 )(see also above) Associated illness ( 178 )( see below) STEADY-STATE CONDITIONS This first assumption should be questioned whenever anomalous results occur during associated illness, or with medications that perturb the pituitary-thyroid axis. The half-lives of plasma TSH (approximately 1 hour) and plasma T4 (approximately 1 week) differ so widely that acute perturbation of the pituitary-thyroid axis will often result in transient nonsteady state conditions ( Figure 5 ). Due to its much shorter half-life, serum TSH deviates more rapidly from steady state. Other common deviations from steady state relate to short-term pulsatile or diurnal fluctuations in hormone secretion, responses to treatment and spontaneous evolution of disease, as can occur in subacute thyroiditis or postpartum thyroid dysfunction. Figure 5. Measurement of serum T4, rather than serum TSH, is the more reliable single test of thyroid function when steady state conditions do not apply, as in the early phase of treatment for hyperthyroidism or hypothyroidism. (adapted from reference ( 178 ) NORMAL TROPIC-TARGET HORMONE RELATIONSHIP During treatment of prolonged hyperthyroidism, TSH secretion may remain low for several months after serum free T4 becomes normal ( 218 ). Conversely, after severe prolonged hypothyroidism, or in some children treated for congenital hypothyroidism ( 217 ), TSH hypersecretion may persist despite normalization of serum T4. Serum TSH will then give an inaccurate indication of thyroid status, with the potential for over-treatment if this variable alone is used to assess therapy. TISSUE RESPONSES PROPORTIONAL TO THE HORMONE CONCNETRATION The active or free concentrations of T3 and T4 generally correlate well with clinical features. However, in generalized thyroid hormone resistance due to mutations in the thyroid hormone receptor, serum free T3 and T4 concentrations are elevated and the TSH is inappropriately normal or elevated due to the impaired feedback at the level of the pituitary thyrotrophs. The onset and offset of genomic thyroid hormone action are relatively slow,
