Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


TSH is inappropriately normal or elevated due to the impaired feedback at the level of the pituitary thyrotrophs. The onset and offset of genomic thyroid hormone action are relatively slow, so that tissue responses may lag behind changes in serum concentrations of free T4 and T3. There is a notable lack of convenient, sensitive, specific, objective indices of thyroid hormone action (see later), so that assessment remains predominantly clinical. Corroborative measurements that can be useful, especially in following the response of individuals to therapy, include measurement of oxygen consumption ( 241 ), sex hormone binding globulin ( 242 ), and angiotensin converting enzyme ( 243 ), as well as several indices of cardiac contractility, although none of them is a very accurate nor specific biomarker for changes in thyroid function. THE ASSAY MEASUREMENT REFLECTS THE ACTIVE HORMONE(S) TSH and iodothyronine assays make comparative, rather than absolute, measurements of hormone concentrations, based on the premise that samples and assay standards differ only in their concentration of the analyte. This assumption fails if there is any other difference between a serum sample and assay standards that influence the measured variable, as, for example, dissimilar protein binding of tracer ( 244 ), the presence of binding competitors ( 235 , 245 ), or possible nonspecific interference with enzymatic, fluorescent, or chemiluminescent detection systems. Circulating T3 and T4 autoantibodies may invalidate immunoassays by sequestering the assay tracer ( 246 ), while heterophile mouse or sheep ( 231 , 232 ) antibodies and rheumatoid factor can interfere with immunoglobulin aggregation, or with cross linking of the signal and capture antibodies ( 247 , 248 ). If the biologic activity of circulating immunoreactive TSH is increased or decreased, the normal relationship between measured serum TSH and free T4 may be altered. Secreted immunoreactive TSH is heterogeneous, due to differences in its three oligosaccharide side chains. In hypothalamic hypothyroidism, the secreted TSH has decreased bioactivity ( 229 , 230 ), whereas activity may be enhanced in thyroid hormone resistance, primary hypothyroidism, and in some TSH-producing tumors ( 249 , 250 ). THE ASSAY CAN RELIABLY DISTINGUISH LOW FROM NORMAL LEVELS Assay precision inevitably deteriorates as the limit of detection is approached; this characteristic is crucial in evaluating TSH assays that are used to distinguish hyperthyroidism from normal ( 57 , 178 ). The lower working limit of a TSH assay should be defined in terms of its
