Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


TSH assays that are used to distinguish hyperthyroidism from normal ( 57 , 178 ). The lower working limit of a TSH assay should be defined in terms of its between-assay reproducibility, defined as functional sensitivity, rather than by the analytical sensitivity of individual assay runs ( 57 , 178 ). REFERENCE RANGES ARE APPROPRIATE Since reference ranges of the thyroid related hormone measurements vary substantially according to the methods of measurement, it does not make much sense to provide typical ranges. However, reference ranges show little change with advancing age, except for a possible decline in normal serum T3 with age ( 215 , 240 ). Serum T3 is significantly higher in children ( 239 ) and probably also in young adults. For statistical analyses, TSH reference ranges are generally evaluated after logarithmic transformation; the geometric mean is then used to define a realistic lower normal limit. There may be an age-related change in the central setpoint for TSH secretion, with a progressive decline in the TSH setpoint or response to decreased levels in serum T4 ( 215 , 216 ). Associated illness, nutritional changes, and medications frequently cause assay results to fall outside the normal reference ranges as defined in healthy subjects, so that it may be relevant to use wider than normal reference ranges in the face of associated illness ( 178 ). Thus, reference ranges are only appropriate and useful in the context of employing the same biochemical laboratory method in establishing the reference range as the one used for routine measurement in patients. Since automated laboratory methods have been extensively implemented globally, where most clinicians rely entirely on the manufacturers’ information on the method quality (sensitivity, accuracy and imprecision), as well as the reference interval, above requirement for one’s own local laboratory to perform these assessments in order to improve local laboratory quality of results has currently left much to desire. APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION OF INDIVIDUAL SERUM ASSAYS Serum TSH as the Initial Test of Thyroid Function Either serum TSH or free T4 can be used as the initial test of thyroid function, with TSH previously assessed as giving better first-line discrimination at slightly higher cost ( 182 ). A normal serum TSH concentration has high negative predictive value in ruling out primary thyroid disease, and this assay has become increasingly used as the single initial test of thyroid function, with no further assays done
