Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


high negative predictive value in ruling out primary thyroid disease, and this assay has become increasingly used as the single initial test of thyroid function, with no further assays done routinely if serum TSH is normal. If serum TSH is increased, free T4 is measured on the same sample to distinguish between overt and subclinical hypothyroidism ( Figure 6 ). If serum TSH is suppressed, i.e.<0.05 mU/l, both free T4 and free T3 should be assessed to distinguish between overt hyperthyroidism, T3-thyrotoxicosis and subclinical hyperthyroidism. The interpretation of subnormal TSH values is influenced by the functional sensitivity of the particular assay (see below). The demonstrated slightly higher costs are probably eliminated by the much better interlaboratory robustness of the TSH assays compared to free T4 estimates, although this has never been properly verified. Figure 6. An algorithm for the initial assessment of thyroid function, based on initial assay of serum TSH. The limitations of this strategy are summarized in table 5 . TPOAb=thyroperoxidase antibodies; TRAb=Thyrotropin receptor antibodies; FT 4 and 3 =Free thyroxine and -triiodothyronine. LIMITATIONS OF THE “TSH FIRST” TESTING STRATEGY The rationale for using TSH alone as a first-line test of thyroid function rests on the assumptions that thyroprivic, or primary hypothyroidism is far more common than central or secondary hypothyroidism, and on the fact that serum TSH deviates outside the reference range early in the natural history of thyroid over-function or progressive thyroid failure. The major weaknesses of this approach are the likelihood of missing secondary hypothyroidism (in which the concentration of immunoreactive serum TSH is frequently normal rather than low), and the frequency of abnormal TSH concentrations in the absence of thyroid dysfunction, especially in patients with an associated illness or interference in the TSH assays ( Table 6 ). Beckett and Toft ( 184 ) have pointed out the adverse consequences of missing secondary hypothyroidism due to pituitary failure by relying on normal serum TSH to rule out thyroid dysfunction. The diagnosis of this disorder is often difficult, with diverse presentations to a wide range of practitioners who may not be attuned to key clinical features. They estimated that as many as 1500 cases per year of central hypothyroidism could be missed in the UK if the “TSH first” policy were followed inflexibly. This potentially serious diagnostic problem was shown by Wardle et al. ( 183 ) who reported an analysis of 56,000 requests for
