Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


if the “TSH first” policy were followed inflexibly. This potentially serious diagnostic problem was shown by Wardle et al. ( 183 ) who reported an analysis of 56,000 requests for thyroid function testing over 12 months from a population of 471,000. Serum TSH was normal in association with subnormal total and free T4 in 15 patients who, on further investigation, had probable hypopituitarism that would have been missed by assessment of serum TSH alone. Cost benefit analyses would therefore need to balance the savings from not measuring serum T4 routinely, against the cost of further investigation and medical care for the missed diagnoses, in addition to a component for burden of suffering and potential litigation. If advances in technology can reduce the unit cost of measuring T4, the “TSH first” approach may be abandoned. Table 6. Situations in Which Serum TSH Alone can Give a False or Uncertain Indication of Thyroid Status. View in own window Condition TSH fT4 fT3 Primary abnormality of TSH secretion Pituitary-hypothalamic abnormality L- N L Extremely premature infants L- N L L Central TSH excess N -H H H Hyperthyroidism T3 toxicosis U N H Subclinical U N N Early Treatment U H-N-L H-N-L TSH assay artefact L- N -H H H Hypothyroidism Subclinical H N Early Treatment H L-N Thyroid hormone resistance N -H H H Medications Dopamine L N N Glucocorticoids L N L-N Amiodarone (acute) H N-H L N: normal; L: low; H: high; U: undetectable. Serum Free and Total T4 Estimation of free T4, or total T4 linked to a measurement of the thyroid hormone binding ratio, in association with serum TSH, has now become the standard method of assessing thyroid function, except in settings where the TSH-first strategy persists. Assays for total T4 and T3 in unextracted serum include a reagent such as 8-anilinonaphthalene sulfonic acid that blocks T4 and T3 binding to serum proteins, so that total hormone is available for competition with the assay antibody. Assays for free T4 or T3 omit this blocking reagent and use a wide variety of manoeuvres to isolate a moiety that reflects the free hormone concentration. The theoretical basis, practical utility, and validity of the many different approaches to the estimation of serum free T4 and T3, have been considered in detail ( 251 ) (see below). Two key assumptions in any method of free T4 estimation are (i) that the dissociation
