Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


For estimation of the serum T3-T4 ratio. A high ratio (>0.024 on a molar basis or >20 calculated as ng/µg) that persists during antithyroid drug treatment suggests that patients with hyperthyroid Graves’ disease are unlikely to achieve remission ( 258 ). This ratio usually is lower in iodide-induced hyperthyroidism ( 259 ) or hyperthyroidism caused by thyroiditis ( 260 ) than in Graves’ disease. g. To detect early recurrence of hyperthyroidism after cessation of antithyroid drug therapy. h. To establish the extent of T3 excess during high-dose replacement or suppressive therapy with T4, or after an accidental or intentional T4 overdose. Low serum T3 concentrations have little specificity or sensitivity for the diagnosis of hypothyroidism. Many patients with nonthyroidal illness have low values, and the serum T3 concentration can remain in the reference range until hypothyroidism is severe. Serum T3 concentrations are usually interpreted together with the concentrations of T4 ( Table 7 ). Table 7. Relationship Between Serum T4 and T3 in Various Disorders* View in own window Serum T4 Serum T3 Low Normal High Low Severe hypothyroidism TBG deficiency # Severe nonthyroidal illness Euthyroid hypo-thyroxinemia Nonthyroidal illness Medications Fetus Restricted nutrition Hyperthyroidism with severe nonthyroidal illness Amiodarone Normal Iodine deficiency T3 treatment Hypothyroidism T4 treatment Euthyroid hyper- thyroxinemia Hyperthyroidism with nonthyroidal illness T4 binding autoantibodies High Iodine deficiency T3 treatment Antithyroid drugs T3 toxicosis T3 binding autoantibodies Hyperthyroidism Excess T4 ingestion Hormone resistance TBG excess # * Excludes short term changes related to initiation or cessation of therapy # Effect on total hormone concentration; free hormone concentration remains normal TBG, thyroxine binding globulin Indications for TRH Testing The development of high-sensitivity TSH assays has almost eliminated the need for TRH testing in clinical practice. With intact hypothalamic-pituitary function, there is a close correlation between the TSH response to TRH and the basal level of serum TSH, when measured by a highly sensitive assay ( 261 , 262 ). Hence, TRH testing now offers little diagnostic advantage over accurate measurement of the basal serum TSH concentration in the detection of hyperthyroidism ( 263 ). However, measurement of serum TSH 20 to 30 minutes after intravenous injection of 200 to 500 µg TRH remains useful for several purposes: a. To assess patients whose basal serum TSH values are out of context, in order to identify assay artefacts. For example, a detectable serum TSH concentration that is unresponsive to TRH in
