Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


assess patients whose basal serum TSH values are out of context, in order to identify assay artefacts. For example, a detectable serum TSH concentration that is unresponsive to TRH in a thyrotoxic patient suggests either non-specific assay interference ( 263 ), or the presence of a TSH-secreting pituitary tumor where serum TSH is often unresponsive to TRH ( 250 ). b. To distinguish between cases of thyroid hormone resistance and pituitary-dependent hyperthyroidism. In most instances of hyperthyroidism caused by TSH-secreting pituitary tumors there is no increase in serum TSH in response to TRH ( 250 ), while an increased serum TSH response to TRH is seen in the thyroid hormone resistance ( 227 ). Serum Thyroglobulin This iodinated 660 kDa dimeric glycoprotein, which is the scaffold for thyroid hormone synthesis, is normally detectable in serum and is released in excess in a wide variety of situations where thyroid tissue is overactive, inflamed, or proliferating ( 264 ). Undetectable serum levels suggest absence or suppression of thyroid tissue. In the past decade functional assay sensitivity has improved almost ten-fold from about 1 µg/L to around 0.1 µg/L. As a consequence, thyroglobulin (Tg) is now detectable in serum without TSH stimulation in a larger proportion of patients and has greater diagnostic sensitivity during continuing T4 therapy ( 265 ). Nevertheless, undetectable serum Tg in the presence of high TSH remains the benchmark for proof of successful ablation after treatment of differentiated thyroid cancer. Standard indications for measurement of serum Tg are as follows: a. Follow-up of treatment for differentiated thyroid cancer to identify or rule out the presence of residual thyroid tissue, whether normal or metastatic. An undetectable serum thyroglobulin concentration in the presence of high TSH, whether achieved by thyroxine withdrawal, or injection of recombinant TSH, is presumptive evidence that differentiated thyroid tissue has been ablated ( 266 ). In contrast, the level of serum Tg that persists when serum TSH is suppressed, can give a useful index of tumor burden ( 201 ). In a 16-year follow-up study in differentiated carcinoma, post-ablative Tg concentration was a strong predictor of disease recurrence ( 267 ). However, serum Tg measurement is a technically challenging assay and criteria to define a 'highly sensitive' assay may be different, a good knowledge of the technical difficulties and interpretation criteria is of paramount importance for both clinical thyroidologists, laboratory physicians, and scientists involved in the care
