Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


assay may be different, a good knowledge of the technical difficulties and interpretation criteria is of paramount importance for both clinical thyroidologists, laboratory physicians, and scientists involved in the care of differentiated thyroid cancer patients ( 268 ). Concurrent measurement of serum TSH and Tg antibody is always required for interpretation of serum Tg values. b. Investigation of atypical hyperthyroidism, where there is a suspicion of thyrotoxicosis factitia in which serum Tg is generally very low or undetectable ( 269 ). c. Assay of Tg in the needle washes after biopsy of extrathyroidal neck masses is useful in identifying metastatic thyroid tissue ( 270 ). This technique has higher specificity and sensitivity than cytology from suspect lymph nodes ( 271 ). d. Serum Tg may serve as a sensitive if non-specific marker of iodine deficiency or ineffective synthesis of thyroid hormone ( 272 ). Because elevation of serum Tg concentration occurs in a wide range of thyroid disorders, interpretation of results always requires a knowledge of (i) the clinical context, (ii) the serum TSH concentration and (iii) whether Tg antibodies are present. Interactions between serum Tg and circulating antibodies have the potential to cause false-negative assay results, as discussed below. However, measurement of Tg antibodies in the follow up protocol of treated differentiated thyroid carcinoma can also function as surrogate biomarkers for relapse of the thyroid carcinoma ( 273 - 275 ). Thyroglobulin Antibodies (TgAb) Assessment of thyroglobulin antibodies (TgAb) in serum is indicated: a. As an essential component of the interpretation of assays for serum Tg, to establish whether endogenous antibodies could be responsible for spuriously low Tg values by interfering with assay separation, particularly in immunometric assays. It is cause for concern that current assays for TgAb may not give congruent results when cross-matched in the assessment of Tg in antibody-positive samples ( 178 , 276 , 277 ) (See below). b. As secondary follow-up criterion in differentiated thyroid cancer, where a progressive decline in antibody concentration may follow successful ablation ( 273 , 274 ). c. In pregnant populations where positive anti-thyroperoxidase antibodies may not reflect the woman’s autoimmune status in all situations ( 278 ), perhaps in particular in iodine fortification programs. It may, however, turn out to be more important in future practice than previously thought ( 278 ), when previous advice of routine measurements of both thyroperoxidase/microsomal antibodies and TgAb were abandoned ( 279
