Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


out to be more important in future practice than previously thought ( 278 ), when previous advice of routine measurements of both thyroperoxidase/microsomal antibodies and TgAb were abandoned ( 279 ). Thyroid Peroxidase Antibodies This entity, previously termed antimicrosomal antibody, is closely linked with autoimmune thyroid disease, in particular Hashimoto’s thyroiditis. Measurement of thyroid peroxidase antibody is indicated as follows ( 278 ): a. To identify an autoimmune cause for primary hypothyroidism. b. In individuals with the TSH excess of mild thyroid failure, in whom a positive thyroperoxidase antibody indicates an approximately two-fold increase in risk of progression to overt hypothyroidism ( 280 ). A strongly positive result in the presence of mild thyroid failure may influence the decision to commence replacement. c. In screening for immune thyroid dysfunction or potential hypothyroidism before or early in pregnancy, especially in high-risk groups and as a predictor of the potential postpartum thyroid dysfunction (see below). d. In order to establish whether there is an immune basis for euthyroid goiter, and to evaluate the risk of future hypothyroidism at a stage before there is any increase in serum TSH e. In cases suspected of polyautoimmunity, where thyroid autoimmunity is by far the most prevalent autoimmune manifestation ( 16 ) TSH Receptor Antibodies (TRAb) Antibodies that interact with the TSH receptor can be measured either by bioassay, or competitive binding techniques. Bioassays that use thyroid cells of human or animal origin, or cells with transfected TSH receptor, generally depend on tissue production of adenylate cyclase for quantitation. These assays allow a distinction to be made between antibodies with thyroid stimulating (TSAb) and blocking (TBAb) activity. Radioreceptor (thyroid binding inhibitor immunoglobulin, TBII) assays that measure competition by circulating immunoglobulin for specific binding of labelled TSH, are widely available, but do not distinguish between blocking and stimulating activity. A competitive binding assay using a recombinant human TSH receptor, showed 98-99% positivity in active Graves’ disease, with positive results in <1% of subjects with nonautoimmune thyroid diseases ( 281 ). Impressive sensitivity and specificity have been reported with an assay that uses solubilized native porcine TSH receptor with a biotinylated anti-porcine TSH receptor monoclonal capture antibody ( 282 ). Indications for the measurement of TRAb vary in different practice environments, but are clearly applicable to the following situations: a. During pregnancy in women with active or previous autoimmune thyroid disease, to assess the risk of neonatal thyroid
