Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


different practice environments, but are clearly applicable to the following situations: a. During pregnancy in women with active or previous autoimmune thyroid disease, to assess the risk of neonatal thyroid dysfunction due to transplacental passage of TRAb. Guidelines from the European Thyroid Association (ETA) ( 283 ) suggest that TRAb measurements should be made early in pregnancy in women who have received previous ablative treatment, and in the last trimester in women receiving drug treatment for active Graves’ disease. Antibody measurement during pregnancy was not considered necessary for Graves’ disease in remission. Recent guidelines from ETA, however, state that all patients with a history of autoimmune thyroid disease should have their TRAb serum concentrations measured at the first presentation of pregnancy using either a sensitive binding or a functional cell-based bio-assay and if they are elevated, again at 18-22 weeks of gestation ( 284 ). b. In the differential diagnosis of atypical hyperthyroidism that may be due to Graves’ disease. c. In atypical eye disease that may be due to Graves’ orbitopathy. d. In Graves’ orbitopathy for risk assessment of deterioration after radioiodine therapy for the hyperthyroidism. e. To assess the chance of achieving a drug-induced remission of Graves’ disease and to predict whether an apparent remission of Graves’ disease is likely to be sustained, or whether relapse should be anticipated, although this is still controversial (see below)( 285 - 287 ). TSH Alpha Subunit Assay of the TSH alpha subunit is indicated where hyperthyroidism appears to be the result of central autonomous TSH excess to distinguish this entity from thyroid hormone resistance ( 250 ). Most TSH producing pituitary adenomas show an increase in alpha subunit ( 250 ), and this assay may serve as a useful tumor marker after treatment. By contrast, levels generally remain normal in thyroid hormone resistance ( 227 ). Values are also high in postmenopausal women, in men with hypogonadism, and in gonadotrophin-producing pituitary tumors; both thyrotrophs and gonadotrophs secrete this subunit. Serum Reverse T3 rT3 levels are altered in some rare forms of impaired sensitivity to thyroid hormone: it is significantly reduced in patients with SBP2 mutations, and substantially increased in patients with MCT8 mutations. However, these syndromes are rare ( 288 ). Previous suggestions that it might be useful in distinguishing true hypothyroidism from the hypothyroxinemia of severe illness have not been confirmed ( 289 ). Urinary Iodine Estimation Both iodine deficiency
