Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


undetectable serum TSH concentration in an assay of appropriate sensitivity. However, the condition can be present without any one of these three criteria. T3-thyrotoxicosis, in which serum T4 remains normal, is more prevalent in iodine deficient regions ( 296 ) and can be a premonitory stage of typical hyperthyroidism ( 297 ). When hyperthyroidism coexists with another severe illness, serum T3 may be transiently normal or even subnormal ( 298 ). Detectable or increased serum TSH concentrations in the face of hyperthyroidism can be due to laboratory artefacts ( 263 ), or to autonomous over-secretion of TSH ( 250 ). The increase in free T4 and free T3 estimates is usually more marked than the increase in total hormone concentration. Progressive increases in serum total T4, will approach and eventually exceed the limited T4 binding capacity of thyroxine binding globulin (about 300 nmol/l or 24 ug/dl), leading to disproportionate increases in the free serum concentrations of T4 ( 299 ) and T3 ( 300 ), relative to their total concentrations. TREATED HYPERTHYROIDISM In the early drug treatment of hyperthyroidism, measurements of serum T4 and T3 are required for dose adjustment because suppression of TSH may persist for months after correction of longstanding hyperthyroidism ( 298 ). Hence, failure to decrease thionamide dosage while TSH suppression persists, can result in serious over-treatment during the early phase of therapy. During thionamide therapy, hyperthyroidism may persist due solely to T3 excess ( 253 ); assessment of therapy based on serum T4 alone can then result in under-treatment. A daily dose of 15 mg methimazole can result in hypothyroxinemia in about 10% of previously thyrotoxic subjects within 4 weeks ( 301 ); hence a reassessment of both serum free T3 and free T4 is timely after about 3 weeks to allow appropriate dose-adjustment. In contrast to these discrepancies during early treatment, serum TSH generally gives a reliable index of therapy during the long-term drug treatment of hyperthyroidism. The rate of change in serum free T4 and free T3 during treatment of hyperthyroidism with thionamide gives a valuable guide to dose adjustment, even while levels remain increased and serum TSH is still undetectable. For example, if serum T4 decreases by half in the first four weeks of treatment, it is appropriate to decrease the initial thionamide dosage by about half to minimize the possibility of over-treatment. Davies et al. ( 302 ) assessed the prognostic
