Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


weeks of treatment, it is appropriate to decrease the initial thionamide dosage by about half to minimize the possibility of over-treatment. Davies et al. ( 302 ) assessed the prognostic significance of various serum TSH levels in a large cohort of patients treated with radioiodine 2-35 years previously, who were receiving no other treatment. After a further two years of follow-up, 83% of those with normal TSH had not changed their diagnostic category, although there was a trend for TSH to increase. An increased TSH was associated with a 14.5% incidence of hypothyroidism after one year. Notably, spontaneous normalization of subnormal or undetectable TSH values during the follow-up period was more common than recurrence of overt hyperthyroidism ( 302 ). Hence, while an increased TSH value might be a pointer towards T4 treatment, there appears to be no basis for further radioiodine therapy solely because TSH remains suppressed. These treatment issues have also been described in guidelines from the ATA ( 303 ) and ETA ( 304 ). Hypothyroidism INITIAL DIAGNOSIS The initial diagnosis of overt primary hypothyroidism is established by an increase in serum TSH with subnormal free T4; serum free T3 may remain normal except in severe cases. Subclinical hypothyroidism or mild thyroid failure is defined by persistent elevation of serum TSH, while free T4 remains normal (see above). The precise upper limit of the reference range for TSH is difficult to define, because of the approximately logarithmic distribution of this variable. The upper “tail” of normal TSH in the range 2-4 mU/l is thin and subjects with TSH concentrations in this range have an increased likelihood of future hypothyroidism, especially if thyroperoxidase antibodies are positive ( 280 ). Serum TSH is the key to the distinction between primary and secondary hypothyroidism. A low serum free T4 in the absence of TSH elevation should always raise the possibility of a pituitary or hypothalamic abnormality, although this combination of findings is also frequent in a number of other situations ( Table 8 ), especially during critical illness ( 190 ). It should be noted also that immunoreactive serum TSH is often detectable in secondary or central thyroid deficiency, a phenomenon that appears to result from dissociation between biological and immunological TSH activity ( 249 ). Hence, normal or even elevated serum TSH should not be interpreted as conclusive evidence against hypopituitarism ( 305 ). Table 8. Causes of Subnormal
