Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


immunological TSH activity ( 249 ). Hence, normal or even elevated serum TSH should not be interpreted as conclusive evidence against hypopituitarism ( 305 ). Table 8. Causes of Subnormal Free T4 without TSH Excess View in own window Secondary or central hypothyroidism Impaired biological activity of TSH Critical illness Falsely low free T4 estimate (method-dependent) Dilution-dependent artefact (see below) Effect of medications that compete for T4 binding Impaired TSH response to hypothyroxinemia Effect of severe illness Medications e.g. dopamine, glucocorticoids RESPONSE TO TREATMENT A serum TSH value in the low-normal range between 0.5 and 1.5 mU/l, close to the geometric mean, is probably the best single indicator of appropriate thyroxine dosage during standard replacement therapy. In a study of ambulatory patients attending a thyroid clinic, hypothyroid patients taking T4 replacement seldom needed a serum free T4 measurement if the serum TSH was greater than 0.05 mU/L, although at lower TSH values, the magnitude of T4 excess did influence management ( 306 ). Numerous studies show that patients taking exogenous thyroxine show higher levels of serum total and free T4 for equivalent levels of serum TSH and T3 when compared with untreated euthyroid control subjects ( 307 , 308 ). It should be noted that in some situations, for example patients with both ischemic heart disease and hypothyroidism, or in very old subjects, the appropriate dose of T4 should be influenced by clinical judgment as well as laboratory findings. The assessment of optimal levothyroxine dosage in patients with secondary or central hypothyroidism remains a challenge because serum TSH does not serve as a reliable marker of under-replacement. Serum TSH may in this context diminish during thyroxine replacement in hypopituitarism ( 309 ); while not of primary diagnostic value, the concentration may serve as an index of individual progressive response ( 186 , 310 )). Since there is no readily available alternative variable of thyroid hormone action, it is generally appropriate to assess replacement clinically and on the basis of both serum T4 and T3. Measured levels of free and total T4 are influenced by the interval between tablet ingestion and blood sampling. In athyreotic subjects who took 0.15-0.2 mg T4 orally, the serum free and total T4 concentrations were increased by about 20% one to four hours later, with return to baseline about nine hours after T4 ingestion; serum TSH and T3 levels showed no time-dependent variation in relation to
