Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


by about 20% one to four hours later, with return to baseline about nine hours after T4 ingestion; serum TSH and T3 levels showed no time-dependent variation in relation to timing of thyroxine dosage ( 310 ). In some situations, the regulation of T4 replacement is both unreliable, unpredictable and very variable. Excluding low patient compliance, this is often due to variable absorption of T4 from the gastrointestinal tract due to e.g. gastric or bowel disease ( 311 ), pernicious anemia with achlorhydria ( 312 ), a variety of over the counter medications such as antacids ( 313 ), laxatives ( 313 ), calcium ( 314 ), coffee ( 315 ), and many other substances. This untoward situation for the patient who is most often very negatively affected by the variable and irregular thyroid function can sometimes be alleviated by changing treatment formulation to a soluble form or soft gel capsules rather than tablets ( 312 ). SUPPRESSIVE TREATMENT WITH T4 In line with recent guidelines for the stratification of risk in patients with differentiated thyroid cancer ( 316 ), there is no single TSH target during long-term postoperative thyroxine therapy ( 317 , 318 ). In high risk patients there may be benefit from adjusting T4 dosage to suppress TSH to undetectable levels (e.g. <0.03 mU/l). However, in many situations it may be appropriate to aim for a TSH target in the lower normal range in order to minimize adverse effects on bone and cardiovascular system. It is also worth noting that the initial ablative treatment of differentiated thyroid carcinoma tends to be less radical with classification into low and high-risk groups according to the guidelines. This may influence the long-term outcome which however remains to be seen in future long-term follow-up studies. When the aim of T4 suppressive therapy is regression of benign thyroid tissue, it may be adequate to give sufficient T4 to reduce serum TSH to 0.1 to 0.3 mU/L ( 319 ). TREATMENT WITH T3 If currently available T3 formulations are used for replacement, it is difficult to monitor the effectiveness of treatment. Owing to its short plasma half-life, the serum concentration is highly dependent on the interval between dosage and sampling ( 320 ). There is also doubt as to whether TSH serves as an accurate index of thyroid hormone action during continuing T3 therapy, with the suggestion that doses of T3 required to
