Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


). Third, some of the observed abnormalities will reflect the effect of medications or may be methodological artefacts. It is difficult to rule out previously unrecognized or recent thyroid dysfunction by clinical assessment in critically ill patients; current laboratory tests often do little to resolve the problem. During severe illness, one or more of the assumptions that underpin the diagnostic use of the TSH-T4 relationship (see above) may not be valid. For example, acute fluctuations from the steady-state can lead to an anomalous T4-TSH relationship simply because of the marked difference in the plasma half-lives of T4 and TSH. In general, the same sample assayed for TSH by various methods will give similar results during critical illness, while various estimates of free T4 may give widely divergent results (see below). When TSH and T4 changes are considered together, the abnormal results rarely correspond to standard criteria for diagnosis of primary hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism. In contrast, persistent hypothyroxinemia without the corresponding anticipated rise in serum TSH is a common finding that suggests secondary or central hypothyroidism. These changes appear to be part of a broad neuroendocrine response that also involves the pituitary-adrenal axis, the pituitary-gonadal axis and the IGF binding proteins ( 329 , 330 ). Further study of these responses may eventually lead to therapy that could extend beyond thyroid hormone replacement, for example to substitution of hypothalamic releasing hormones ( 330 ). The only reasonably robust method for distinguishing central hypothyroidism from thyroid function variables during critical illness is measurement of the T3 uptake test, which will be high (as opposite to low in central hypothyroidism) ( 331 ) and independent of the free T4 estimate which can be affected by a number of drugs used in intensive care patients (see below), and are anyway most often ‘false’ in the extreme situations (here low) where the automated methods for free thyroid hormones are unable to correct properly for binding protein abnormalities, or for abnormal binding to the binding proteins ( 331 ) ( Figure 7 ). EFFECTS OF MEDICATION Interpretation of thyroid function tests during critical illness can be influenced by multiple medications ( Table 3 ) ( 45 ), in particular dopaminergics and glucocorticoids, which inhibit TSH secretion, and a wide range of inhibitors of T4 and T3 binding to circulating thyroxine binding globulin ( 332 ). Thus, dopamine, dobutamine, glucocorticoids, octreotide, bexarotene, and metformin all inhibit pituitary
