Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


and a wide range of inhibitors of T4 and T3 binding to circulating thyroxine binding globulin ( 332 ). Thus, dopamine, dobutamine, glucocorticoids, octreotide, bexarotene, and metformin all inhibit pituitary TSH secretion, while an iodine load such as by using contrast agents, amiodarone or topical iodine preparations modifies hormone synthesis and release in a dual fashion. Lithium, glucocorticoids, and aminoglutethimide are inhibitors of both synthesis and release. Both amiodarone, glucocorticoids and beta-blockers, as well as hepatic contrast agents, inhibit T4-T3 5′ deiodination, and immune function modifications are seen by use of interleukin 1, interferon alpha, interferon beta and monoclonal antibody therapies. Figure 7. Plots of peripheral thyroid hormone measurements (here T4) in various situations of thyroid dysfunction, protein binding abnormalities and drugs displacing the thyroid hormone from the binding proteins. The degree of distortion of the free T4 estimate depends on the assay methods (measurement platforms) as well as the degree of binding protein abnormalities. T3-test is able to distinguish central hypothyroidism from the effects of critical illness and displacement of the hormone by medicaments. A number of drugs modify the binding of T4 and T3 to plasma proteins. e.g. estrogen, heroin, methadone, clofibrate, 5-fluouracil, perphenazine, tamoxifen, raloxifene, 5-fluouracil, and perphenazine, increase the concentration of thyroid hormone binding globulin, while glucocorticoids, androgens and l-asparaginase decrease the concentration. A number of drugs may displace T4 and T3 from binding proteins or displace T4 from the tissue pool and others increase the clearance of T4 and T3. A major issue in the serum free T4 measurement is drug and other interference in T4 replacement when absorption of T4 is impaired ( 333 , 334 ). This can happen in cases with impaired gastric activity ( 311 ), and coffee intake ( 315 ), but also any pharmaceutical drugs ( 335 ), many of them sold over the counter ( 313 ). METHODOLOGICAL DISCREPANCIES IN NON-THYROIDAL ILLNESS The Heparin Artifact and Free T4 The effect of heparin to increase serum free T4 is an important in vitro phenomenon that can lead to spuriously high estimates of circulating free T4 ( 236 ). In the presence of a normal serum albumin concentration, non-esterified fatty acid concentrations >3 mmol/l are required to increase free T4 by displacement from thyroxine binding globulin, but these concentrations are uncommon in vivo . However, in samples from heparin-treated patients, serum non-esterified fatty acids may increase to these levels during
