Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


by displacement from thyroxine binding globulin, but these concentrations are uncommon in vivo . However, in samples from heparin-treated patients, serum non-esterified fatty acids may increase to these levels during in vitro sample storage or incubation as a result of heparin-induced lipase activity ( 236 ) ( Figure 8 ). This effect is accentuated by incubation of serum at 37ºC and by increased serum triglyceride or low serum albumin concentrations, particularly if the sample is pre-diluted. If heparin is given in vivo and the sample is then incubated at 37ºC, doses of heparin as low as 10 units may result in non-esterified fatty acid-induced increases in the apparent concentration of serum free T4 ( 235 , 237 , 336 ). The assay result is analytically correct but does not reflect the in vivo concentration of free T4. Low molecular weight heparin preparations have a similar effect ( 336 ). Figure 8. Heparin-induced release of lipase in vivo can lead to in vitro generation of non-esterified fatty acids during sample incubation or storage. An increase in serum non-esterified fatty acid (NEFA) concentrations to >3 mmol/l is sufficient to displace T4 from thyroxine binding globulin, but such values are uncommon in vivo . This artefact is accentuated by high triglyceride or by low albumin concentrations. Competitors for Plasma Protein Binding The accuracy of virtually all methods of free T4 estimation is compromised by medications that displace T4 and T3 from thyroxine binding globulin. Current methods tend to underestimate the concentration of free T4 in the presence of binding competitors because of dilution-related artefacts. Binding competitors are usually less protein-bound than T4 itself so that progressive sample dilution leads to a fall in the free concentration of competitor before the free T4 concentration alters ( 235 ). (For a hormone such as T4, with a free fraction in serum of about 1:4000, progressive dissociation will sustain the free T4 concentration up to at least 1:100 dilution. In contrast, 1:10 dilution of serum will result in a marked decrease in the free concentration of a drug that is 98% bound, i.e. has a free fraction in serum of 1:50). Because displacement depends on the relative free concentrations of primary ligand and competitor, the underestimate of free T4 will be greatest in assays with the highest sample dilution. This important dilution-dependent difference between various free T4 methods was shown by the relative ability of three
