Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


production ( 343 ). The failure of endogenous TSH to increase into this range suggests too short a period of T4 withdrawal, a compliance problem, or the presence of a substantial amount of active thyroid tissue. Serum Tg measurement and whole body radioiodine scanning have generally been used in a complementary fashion, but there is now good evidence that current assays for Tg have greater sensitivity than follow-up whole body scanning with 2mCi 131I ( 316 ). There has been a clear trend to place greater emphasis on measurements of Tg and to move away from repeated low dose diagnostic whole-body radioiodine scanning, a procedure that has limited sensitivity ( 344 , 345 ). Management of low risk patients now tends to be based on assessment of serum Tg after recombinant TSH stimulation, without the need for diagnostic scanning ( 345 ). However, based on reported data the current fashion of obviating RAI based on a negative post-operative US and low serum Tg value is not yet supported by the literature and should be investigated using well designed prospective studies with clear-cut endpoints ( 346 ). In the opinion of these authors, the evolution of thyroid cancer management cannot pass through a substitution of RAI by serum Tg measurement and neck US but by an appropriate use of radioiodine theranostics. This will also need to develop basic and clinical research programs that bring together physicians from various specialties. Undetectable serum Tg in the years after ablative treatment has been shown to be a reliable index in ruling out persistent or recurrent disease that requires further evaluation and treatment. Detectable serum Tg, together with detailed ultrasonography for localization has become the mainstay of further investigation ( 347 ). There has also been a tendency to deescalate serum Tg measurements by using only unstimulated sensitive serum Tg measurement and not rTSH stimulated assessments ( 348 ). Based on ATA’s most recent 2015 guidelines ( 316 ), Sunny et al. ( 349 ) performed a systematic study of 650 patients followed for papillary thyroid carcinoma who had total thyroidectomy performed and compared the evolution of stimulated and unstimulated serum Tg concentrations. The concentrations were corroborated with tumor burden as determined by additional clinical, ultrasonography neck, and whole-body scintigraphy. The study highlighted the superiority of sSTg over uSTg in the follow-up of papillary thyroid cancer patients. Follow-up with uSTg alone may result in underestimating
