Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


ultrasonography neck, and whole-body scintigraphy. The study highlighted the superiority of sSTg over uSTg in the follow-up of papillary thyroid cancer patients. Follow-up with uSTg alone may result in underestimating the tumor burden. It should not be forgotten, that serum Tg can only be reliably measured in TgAb negative samples, even if measured by high sensitive Tg assays ( 268 , 269 ) so they need to be assessed each time a serum Tg is measured, even if the patient has previously been negative for the antibodies ( 268 , 269 , 350 ). It also should not be forgotten that measurement of serum TgAb can themselves be used as surrogate markers of relapse/metastases from differentiated thyroid carcinoma ( 274 - 276 , 351 ). Assay of thyroglobulin on needle washes of suspect lymph nodes has a high degree of sensitivity and specificity, apparently superior to cytological examination ( 271 , 272 ). During long-term follow-up, it is crucial that clinicians are kept informed of changes in serum thyroglobulin methodology that may give a false impression of remission or recurrence (see above). Psychiatric Illness An unusual variety of euthyroid hyperthyroxinemia occurs in some patients hospitalized with acute psychiatric illness ( 195 ). Serum T4 is increased, but serum T3 is less frequently elevated; serum TSH is generally normal or slightly high ( 352 ). These abnormalities, presumed to be due to central activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis, often resolve in several weeks ( 195 ). Assessment of Thyroid Function Before, During and After Pregnancy Recent advances in the understanding of the importance of optimal maternal thyroid function for fetal brain development in early pregnancy, as well as the influence of thyroid immunity, or thyroid status, on numerous pregnancy outcomes, has greatly increased the frequency of thyroid testing before, during, and after pregnancy. Several guidelines have been published from The Endocrine Society ( 353 ), American Thyroid Association ( 8 ) – and for subclinical hypothyroidism from European Thyroid Association ( 9 ). Projecting this to fertility issues even complicate matters further, and no consensus can currently be obtained ( 354 ). There is thus also still controversy regarding whether to treat subtle abnormalities of thyroid dysfunction in the infertile female patient. This guideline document reviews the risks and benefits of treating subclinical hypothyroidism in female patients with a history of infertility and miscarriage, as well as obstetrical and neonatal outcomes
