Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


using the GRADE approach the evidence was considered to be moderate or high quality, with any downgrading of the evidence based on the presence of wide confidence intervals crossing the line of no effect. More evidence is needed to assess the benefits or harms of different screening methods for thyroid dysfunction in pregnancy, on maternal, infant and child health outcomes. Future trials should assess impacts on use of health services and costs and be adequately powered to evaluate the effects on short- and long-term outcomes ( 6 ). A key consideration is therefore still whether thyroid function should be universally tested ( 357 ) and if so whether it should be done before or early in pregnancy, in view of the fact that women at risk of adverse outcome cannot be identified reliably from their clinical history, even if this is assessed in full detail ( 359 ). A recent review ( 358 ) has concluded that current guidelines agree that overt hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism need to be promptly treated and that as potential benefits outweigh potential harm, subclinical hypothyroidism also requires substitutive treatment. The chance that women with thyroid autoimmunity may benefit from levothyroxine treatment to improve obstetric outcome is intriguing, but adequately powered randomized controlled trials are needed. The issue of universal thyroid screening at the beginning of pregnancy is still a matter of debate, and aggressive case-finding is supported. Careful discussion between the physician and patient concerning benefits on the one hand and unnecessary disease burden should be carried out ( 359 ). METHODOLOGICAL ISSUES Some methodological issues are relevant before the application of tests is considered ( 360 ). There has been almost universal acceptance of free T4 estimates in preference to total T4 measurement in pregnancy because of the well-known estrogen effect to increase thyroxine binding globulin and hence total T4. It is clear that normal pregnancy is associated with a marked increase of about 40% in total T4 concentration, but free T4 is maintained close to normal non-pregnant levels ( 360 ). Previous suggestions that free T4 actually declines significantly in late pregnancy ( 361 ) are uncertain because of wide method-dependent variations, with strong negative bias in some methods ( 362 - 364 ). In a comparative study of free T4 by seven commercial methods in 23 euthyroid women at term, Roti et al. found that albumin-dependent methods show marked negative bias, with
