Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


). In a comparative study of free T4 by seven commercial methods in 23 euthyroid women at term, Roti et al. found that albumin-dependent methods show marked negative bias, with up to 50% subnormal values, while other methods gave values above their non-pregnant reference interval ( 362 ). Notably, particularly during pregnancy, methods of free T4 estimation fall far short of desirable assay standardization criteria that aim to minimize between-assay variation ( 171 ). A study by Lee et al. confirmed marked negative bias in free T4 estimates during pregnancy and questioned the basis for continuing to rely on free thyroxine estimates during pregnancy ( 365 ). In contrast to two kit free T4 methods, total serum T4 and its derivative, the free T4 index, showed the anticipated inverse relationship with serum TSH, with historically consistent results in numerous reports ( 365 ). Thus, because of consistency between methods, total T4 measurement may be superior to free T4 estimation as a guide to therapy during pregnancy, provided that reference values take account of the normal estrogen-induced increase in thyroxine binding globulin during pregnancy ( 360 , 366 ). Serum TSH is generally analytically reliable during pregnancy, but the reference interval is lower at the end of the first trimester, associated with the effect of human choriogonadotropin as a surrogate thyroid stimulator ( 360 ). Hence, the general advice that tests of thyroid function during pregnancy should relate to trimester-specific reference intervals ( 360 , 367 ). In the case of free T4, ranges also need to be method-specific ( 362 - 365 , 367 ). The magnitude of method-dependent variations between non-pregnant and third trimester free T4 estimates is shown in Figure 11 . Figure 11. Free T4 estimates in the third trimester of pregnancy show large method-dependent differences from the reference intervals for non-pregnant subjects. Redrawn from ref. ( 363 ) and ( 364 ) which identify each method studied. The left panel shows values measured by equilibrium dialysis (ED). The solid bars indicate third trimester free T4 estimates, the grey bars, non-pregnant results. It has recently been demonstrated that mass spectrometry measurement of free thyroid hormones may alleviate the problems of flaws in the usual free thyroid hormone measurements in pregnancy ( 368 ), although these results need to be confirmed on the one hand, and a solution to the must higher costs of this type of methodology
