Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


measurements in pregnancy ( 368 ), although these results need to be confirmed on the one hand, and a solution to the must higher costs of this type of methodology has to be solved on the other hand. Until then a pragmatic approach is to use total thyroid hormone measurements multiplied by 1.5 as useful reference interval during pregnancy. There is also during pregnancy, as in the non-pregnant state, a very high individuality index i.e. the intraindividual variability of pregnant women is much higher than the interindividual population- and even trimester-based reference range ( 369 ), which further complicates thyroid function assessment in cross sectional measurements. The function variables become much more clinically significant when measurements are used in longitudinal assessments e.g. during pregnancy. BEFORE PREGNANCY OR WHEN PREGNANCY IS CONFIRMED Because of the adverse effects of maternal thyroid deficiency, there is agreement that pre-pregnancy testing is now mandatory to optimize thyroxine replacement and to assess thyroid status in women who have an increased risk of thyroid dysfunction ( 8 , 9 , 353 , 370 - 372 ), for example a history of recurrent miscarriage, impaired fertility requiring assisted reproductive technology, type 1 diabetes, or any other factors known to be associated with increased risk of thyroid dysfunction ( Table 2 ). Notably, in one key study, about a third of women with subclinical or overt hypothyroidism in the first trimester would have been missed if testing had been confined to those assessed as being at higher risk, based on detailed questioning about potential risk factors, in particular a personal or family history of thyroid or other autoimmune disorder, or previous thyroid-related treatment ( 373 ). A further study confirms that about half of the women at risk for pregnancy-related thyroid dysfunction would be missed by testing confined to the group assessed to be at high risk ( 374 ). Hence, the view that routine testing may now be warranted ( 14 ). Because the major influence of thyroid hormone on fetal brain development is early in pregnancy and the onset of thyroid hormone action is slow, effective testing needs to be done earlier than would follow the first routine obstetric visit at 10-12 weeks. While there is now good evidence that any level of TSH elevation that suggests maternal hypothyroidism should be treated, there is currently no consensus about responses to other test abnormalities. An important finding is
