Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


maternal T4 levels for optimal fetal brain development. Hence, the advice to increase dosage by two daily doses per week as soon as pregnancy is confirmed, followed by a check of serum TSH about 4 weeks later ( 353 , 371 ). In women treated for Graves’ disease with antithyroid drug, dose reduction should be the aim, keeping TSH in the lower normal range. In contrast to the adverse effects of even the mildest grades of hypothyroidism, an extensive study has shown no adverse effect of mild overactivity during pregnancy ( 379 ). It is thus often possible to cease antithyroid drug late in pregnancy, with prospective follow-up to detect post-partum recurrence. In contrast to immune thyroid disorders, nodular thyroid disorders do not appear to show marked fluctuation during and after pregnancy. Recent guidelines recommend the use of propyluracil in the first trimester ( 380 ), and thiamazole (methimazole) thereafter due to the risk of birth defects by thiamazole ( 380 , 381 ), and general side effects to propylthiouracil ( 382 , 383 ). In the event of uncontrolled or severe maternal hyperthyroidism, careful assessment should be made of fetal growth and thyroid size followed by fetal blood sampling in some cases as a guide to optimal therapy ( 384 , 385 ). Guidelines for the assessment of TRAb to gauge the likelihood of neonatal thyrotoxicosis have been discussed above ( 283 ). POSTPARTUM ASSESSMENT Among women who were euthyroid prior to pregnancy, autoimmune thyroid dysfunction not due to Graves' disease occurs in approximately 5–8% in the first year post-partum ( 386 ). Postpartum thyroiditis is an autoimmune disorder that causes lymphocytic inflammation of the thyroid. It is more frequent in women with elevated first-trimester serum thyroperoxidase antibody concentrations ( 387 ) and in women with other autoimmune disorders, such as type 1 diabetes mellitus ( 388 , 389 ). The thyroid inflammation in postpartum thyroiditis initially leads to transient thyrotoxicosis as preformed thyroid hormones are released from the damaged gland. This phase usually occurs 1–3 months post-partum and lasts for 6–9 weeks. Symptoms are typically mild, but rarely florid, transient thyrotoxicosis can be seen. Serum T4 levels are proportionally higher than T3 levels, reflecting the ratio of stored hormone in the thyroid gland (in contrast to Graves' disease where T3 is often preferentially elevated) ( 390 ). In prospective studies there is a high prevalence of thyroid dysfunction
