Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


hormone in the thyroid gland (in contrast to Graves' disease where T3 is often preferentially elevated) ( 390 ). In prospective studies there is a high prevalence of thyroid dysfunction during the post-partum period ( 8 , 353 ), and a high percentage of those women with subclinical postpartum thyroiditis proceeded to permanent thyroid failure ( 391 , 392 ). In an Australian study, this effect was most pronounced in women with low iodine intake ( 393 ). Hence, women with postpartum hypothyroidism should be treated on the basis of confirmed TSH elevation even if the indication for lifelong replacement has not been firmly established. This strategy is especially important because untreated maternal hypothyroidism has critical implications for fetal development in subsequent pregnancies. Also, recent findings of psychiatric disorders coinciding with autoimmune thyroid disorders in the postpartum period ( 394 ) indicates that these women should be screened for thyroid dysfunction, and very likely both conditions should be followed on a longer term basis if significant in the postpartum period. By contrast, almost all women with suppressed or subnormal TSH values 6 months postpartum, showed normal TSH 12 and 18 months later, indicating that postpartum hyperthyroidism is likely to be a temporary phenomenon ( 8 , 353 ). In women with established hypothyroidism, replacement dosage of thyroxine can generally be decreased to the pre-pregnancy dose with testing deferred for several months to review dosage. In Graves’ hyperthyroidism, where antithyroid drug has been ceased during pregnancy, resumption of treatment is generally deferred, based on symptoms and the results of testing at two-three monthly intervals. Where thyroperoxidase antibody testing early in pregnancy has been positive in the absence of frank thyroid dysfunction, prospective testing may be warranted in the 12 months post-partum. Knowledge of maternal thyroid status should be taken into account in assessing the significance of neonatal screening for congenital hypothyroidism, because of reports of temporary effects of maternal blocking antibody in the infant. IODINE STATUS The critical importance of adequate iodine nutrition during pregnancy is widely acknowledged. The increased pool of thyroxine that follows from the increase in serum thyroxine binding globulin, as well as increase in urinary iodine excretion that will aggravate any degree of iodine deficiency, with potential for adverse effects on fetal development. While assessment of iodine status by measurement of urinary iodine excretion in individual women does not have wide support, data on iodine nutrition within
