Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


that are uninterpretable or ambiguous without the relevant clinical background. Potential assay imperfections may be ignored simply because clinical correlation is not possible (see below). Diagnostic Approach to Discordant or Apparently Anomalous Results The relationship between laboratory results and clinical findings may be either concordant or discordant. With discordant results, a distinction needs to be made between a previously unsuspected diagnosis, subclinical disease, and anomalous assay results. If the assay result is confirmed, the fundamental assumptions that underpin the diagnostic use of tropic-target hormone relationships should be considered (see above). The following steps may be helpful in evaluating anomalous assay results: a. Re-evaluation of the clinical context, with particular attention to pre-diagnostic probability, long-term features suggestive of thyroid disease and medication history. b. Assessment of whether serum TSH is markedly suppressed (<0.05 mU/l) or simply in the subnormal-detectable range. c. Further sampling to establish whether the anomalous result is persistent or transient. d. Estimation of serum free T4 by an alternative method, preferably a two-step technique that removes binding proteins from the assay system before quantitation. e. If hyperthyroidism is suspected, measurement of the serum free T3, or total T3 with appropriate binding correction. f. Measurement of serum total T4 to establish whether the serum free T4 is disproportionately high or low, possibly due to a preanalytical or method-dependent artefact. g. Possible evaluation of propositus and family members for evidence of unusual binding abnormalities or hormone resistance. In some circumstances, the cause of an apparently anomalous or unusual laboratory result may become obvious from the clinical context ( table 10 ). By taking account of drug therapy, or acute perturbation of the pituitary-thyroid axis, assay validity can be affirmed and unnecessary further investigation may be avoided. Table 10. Situations in Which Interpretation of Unusual Laboratory Results Depends on Relevant Clinical Information View in own window Clinical background Assay Results fT4 fT3 TSH Pregnancy L* L,N N Antithyroid drug treatment, initial months H,N,L H,N,L U Recent T4 commencement for hypothyroidism N N H Hypothyroidism, appropriate T4 dose H N N Hypothyroidism, intermittent compliance H,N H Appropriate T4 suppressive therapy H N U,L Recombinant TSH, suppressive T4 H N H Hypopituitarism L L,N Phenytoin L* L,N Critical illness L* L L Heparin effect in critical illness L,N,H* L L Recovery phase of critical illness L,N H Drugs that inhibit T4/T3 binding to TBG L* L* L,N Amiodarone effect in euthyroid subject H
