Clinical Strategies in the Testing of Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, free, subclinical, serum tsh, pubmed, clinical, dysfunction, hyperthyroidism, thyroid dysfunction, treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism, patients


effect in critical illness L,N,H* L L Recovery phase of critical illness L,N H Drugs that inhibit T4/T3 binding to TBG L* L* L,N Amiodarone effect in euthyroid subject H L N Acute T4 overdose HH H,N N Rheumatoid arthritis N N H U undetectable; L low; N normal; H high; * effect dependent on assay method Clinical Feedback, Quality Assurance, and Cost Effectiveness Clinical feedback will remain a key aspect of quality assurance in laboratory testing. While assay precision or reproducibility can be evaluated solely in the laboratory, diagnostic accuracy requires clinical correlation. As with any diagnostic test, the non-specificity of a procedure may not become apparent until the full diversity of the non-diseased population is appreciated. Premarketing evaluation of assays may fail to include the critical samples that probe the diagnostic accuracy of an assay, so that non-specific interference is not appreciated until procedures have been in use for some time. In studies of “cost effectiveness” it is hard to evaluate the human and financial costs that result from needless duplication, unnecessary testing and inappropriate management. Diagnostic inaccuracy of immunoassays may account for substantial unnecessary expenditure on laboratory resources ( 263 , 397 , 398 ). Dilution effects and binding protein abnormalities that affect free T4 estimation, the multiple effects of medications in non-thyroidal illness and the problems associated with thyroglobulin autoantibodies will continue to challenge both clinical chemists and clinicians; further technological development will not substitute for collaboration between these two groups. Clinical issues may influence the selection of thyroid tests that will best serve a particular population. For example, the effects of severe illness on free T4 estimates may be of minor importance for a laboratory that serves predominantly ambulatory patients. A different assay profile, with emphasis on measurement of total hormone as the “gold standard” for T4 assessment may be required in a laboratory that evaluates thyroid function during critical illness ( 328 - 330 ) or in obstetric practice ( 8 , 353 ). In the future, hopefully a more sophisticated methodology such as tandem mass spectrometry may be able to eliminate the many confounders in thyroid hormone measurements. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The chapter was updated from a previous comprehensive version by the late Jim Stockigt M.D., FRACP, FRCPA, Monash University and Alfred and Epworth Hospitals, Melbourne, Australia. REFERENCES 1. Clinical guideline, part 1. Screening for thyroid disease. American College of Physicians. Annals of internal medicine.
