Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


Abstract Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is the most common endocrinopathy among adult women in the developed world and is characterized by anovulation, androgen excess (primarily ovarian, but also adrenal in origin) and the appearance of polycystic ovaries on ultrasound. Diagnostic criteria are expert-based and debated as they do not incorporate known metabolic abnormalities related to aberrant insulin action, such as glucose intolerance, diabetes, and dyslipidemia, that affect many women with the syndrome. Symptoms that are most troublesome to patients include hirsutism, obesity, infertility and menstrual disorders. Long-term sequelae of the syndrome, such as an increased risk for cardiovascular events based on risk factor profiling, are unclear from epidemiologic studies. The etiology of the syndrome is likely heterogeneous and genetic studies have been consistent with a complex genetic disease,. Interestingly, the candidate genes identified in multiple genome wide association studies that fit best into existing ideas of the pathophysiology are gonadotropin and gonadotropin receptor genes. Treatment tends to be symptom based, and the search for a single treatment that addresses both reproductive and metabolic abnormalities continues. Some of the most common treatments used for chronic management of PCOS include hormonal contraceptives, progestins and metformin. Treatment of infertility focuses on ovulation induction therapies which may involve drugs such as letrozole or clomiphene or gonadotropin therapy. Treatment of hirsutism often involves the combination of hormonal contraceptives and the adjuvant use of anti-androgens. Weight loss in obese women with PCOS may be beneficial for both the treatment of infertility and long term management. For complete coverage of this and related areas of ENDOCRINOLOGY, please see our FREE on-line web-book, www.endotext.org. Introduction Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is an ovarian disorder characterized by hyperandrogenism, ovulatory dysfunction, and polycystic ovaries. It may be the most common female endocrinopathy in the developed world. However, it most likely represents a heterogeneous disorder and one whose pathophysiology and etiology are debated. PCOS affects young women with oligo-ovulation (which can lead to oligomenorrhea), infertility, acne and hirsutism. It also has notable metabolic sequelae, including an elevated risk of diabetes and cardiovascular risk factors, and long term treatment should also consider these factors. These multiple stigmata have led to a multi-pronged treatment approach, with most therapies targeting individual symptoms. The search for the single unifying theory to this disorder will hopefully yield the single best treatment, but this quest remains one of the Holy Grails of reproductive endocrinology. This chapter will discuss
