Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


the single unifying theory to this disorder will hopefully yield the single best treatment, but this quest remains one of the Holy Grails of reproductive endocrinology. This chapter will discuss the diagnosis, clinical evaluation, pathophysiology, and treatment of women with PCOS. Diagnostic Criteria There is no universally accepted definition of PCOS and expert generated diagnostic criteria have proliferated in recent years ( Figure 1 ). They share a common focus on PCOS as an ovarian disorder. The definition of PCOS has largely been dependent on the technology used to ascertain the condition. Thus the earliest definition of PCOS, or the Stein Leventhal Syndrome, was based on the triad of enlarged ovaries, hirsutism, and oligomenorrhea (1). As assays became available, first urinary and then serum, researchers noted gonadotropin abnormalities with elevated LH levels, and then as androgen assays evolved, elevation in androgen levels. However, these multiple tools to assess women with androgen excess and oligomenorrhea led to multiple diagnostic criteria ( Figure 1 ) and often each investigative group had their own unique set, making the comparison of clinical studies often difficult if not impossible. Figure 1 Recommended diagnostic schemes for PCOS by varying expert groups. All recommend excluding possible other etiologies of these signs/symptoms (See Differential Diagnosis) and more than one of the signs or symptoms must be present to make a diagnosis. Red box - not required for diagnosis; black box - mandatory criteria; white box - possible diagnostic criteria but not necessarily required to be present. Hyperandrogenism may be either the presence of hirsutism or biochemical hyperandrogenemia. It was not until the early 1990s at an NIH-sponsored conference on PCOS that formal diagnostic criteria were proposed and afterwards were largely utilized (2). These criteria, often referred to colloquially as “the NIH criteria” were published in the conference proceedings and received large scale acceptance in the research and clinical communities. These criteria defined PCOS as unexplained hyperandrogenic anovulation. They required the presence of oligomenorrhea AND hyperandrogenism, either clinical or biochemical along with the exclusion of phenocopies. The enduring portion of these criteria accepted by all other criteria was the exclusion of phenocopies such that PCOS remains a diagnosis of exclusion. The improved technology and utilization of ultrasound in women’s health led to the ultrasound definition of polycystic ovaries, defined primarily on the morphology and the number of small antral follicles (3) ( Figure 2 ). The failure to recognize
