Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


health led to the ultrasound definition of polycystic ovaries, defined primarily on the morphology and the number of small antral follicles (3) ( Figure 2 ). The failure to recognize the polycystic ovary in the NIH definition of polycystic ovary syndrome led to the convening of an expert consensus conference to reconsider the NIH diagnostic criteria in Rotterdam in the Netherlands. The subsequent “Rotterdam criteria” incorporated the ultrasound determined size and morphology of the ovary into the diagnostic criteria (4,5). Ultrasound criteria for the diagnosis of polycystic ovaries were also decided by expert consensus (6), though the cutoff for antral follicles was recently raised again by expert opinion due to improvements in resolution allowing increased follicle detection (7) ( Table 1 ) . Because of the limited availability of ultrasound and trained ultrasonographers in many practices (family practice, medical or pediatric endocrinology) as well as in low resource settings, there has been interest in using Anti-Mullerian Hormone (AMH) levels to diagnose polycystic ovaries in lieu of ultrasound.(8) AMH is produced by the granulosa cells of small antral follicles and correlates well with their count.(9) Currently, however, there is no accepted cutoff and there are similar concerns about the effects of age and hormonal contraception on this parameter as antral follicle counts. The Rotterdam criteria have been criticized for including more mild phenotypes, for example, the combination of polycystic ovaries with oligomenorrhea. These additional phenotypes may complicate the generalizability of clinical trials to treat PCOS, and may also elevate the prevalence of PCOS in the general population. Figure 2 Transvaginal ultrasound of a polycystic ovary. Note the increased number of antral follicles ringing the outside of the ovary and the increased central stroma. Table 1 Expert consensus recommendations for the ultrasound diagnosis of polycystic ovaries. The ultrasound exam assumes that if there is a follicle > 10 mm the scan should be repeated during a period of ovarian quiescence in order to calculate the ovarian volume. View in own window 2003 ASRM/ESHRE Consensus 2014 AE-PCOS Consensus Follicles 12 or more follicles measuring 2-9 mm in diameter 25 or more follicles < 10 mm in diameter per ovary Volume > 10 Cm 3 > 10 Cm 3 The Androgen Excess Society criteria subsequently attempted to establish hyperandrogenism as a sine qua non diagnostic factor in combination with other stigmata of the syndrome (10). The focus on hyperandrogenism was to eliminate milder phenotypes
