Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


subsequently attempted to establish hyperandrogenism as a sine qua non diagnostic factor in combination with other stigmata of the syndrome (10). The focus on hyperandrogenism was to eliminate milder phenotypes and based on evidence that hyperandrogenism tends to track with both reproductive (i.e., acne, hirsutism, and androgenic alopecia) and metabolic (i.e., insulin resistance, dyslipidemia, and elevated cardiovascular risk) stigmata of the syndrome. Although the diagnostic criteria are still debated today, recent consensus statements such as the Endocrine Society’s clinical practice guidelines(11) and the NIH Evidence-Based Methodology Executive Summary recommended maintaining the Rotterdam Criteria for PCOS.(12) The latter group did suggest that re-naming the disorder would better focus interest on the diverse implications of the syndrome,(12) and some authors have advocated re-naming the syndrome based on its metabolic underpinnings.(13) There are, however, unifying trends to all diagnostic criteria. Hyperandrogenism in all schemas can be established on the basis of clinical findings (e.g., hirsutism or acne) and/or serum hormone measurement (most commonly serum testosterone levels). All diagnostic schemes recommend that secondary causes (such as adult-onset congenital adrenal hyperplasia, hyperprolactinemia, and androgen-secreting neoplasms) should first be excluded (discussed below under differential diagnosis). All diagnostic schemes also require more than one sign or symptom. Polycystic ovaries alone, for example, are a nonspecific finding and also are frequently noted in women with no endocrine or metabolic abnormalities (14), especially among normal healthy younger women.(15) Insulin resistance has been noted consistently among many women with PCOS, especially in those with hyperandrogenism, but it is not included in any of the diagnostic criteria. We can conclude that there is a thread of continuity between the varying diagnostic criteria. All agree that it is an ovarian disorder and diagnostic criteria revolve around ovarian determined stigmata, such as hyperandrogenism, oligo-ovulation, and polycystic-appearing ovaries. The utility of the varying diagnostic criteria is still being debated by experts, but will ultimately be answered by well-designed clinical studies. There are no diagnostic criteria that are accepted for diagnosing PCOS in pre-pubertal or peri-pubertal girls nor in menopausal women and the relative androgen excess and oligo/amenorrhea that characterize these states likely overlap too much to separate out groups of affected from unaffected women. Incidence of PCOS The incidence of PCOS varies according to the diagnostic criteria. Polycystic ovaries on ultrasound are noted in up to 25%-30% of reproductive aged women (14,16). Thus, the vast majority of women with polycystic ovaries do not have
