Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


the diagnostic criteria. Polycystic ovaries on ultrasound are noted in up to 25%-30% of reproductive aged women (14,16). Thus, the vast majority of women with polycystic ovaries do not have the syndrome. Women with unexplained hyperandrogenic chronic anovulation (i.e., NIH criteria) make up approximately 7% of reproductive aged women (17). There is debate as to whether minorities are disproportionately affected with PCOS (18). Other studies, for example, have shown higher rates of insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes in minorities, including Latino, Native American, and African-American populations. However, the evidence for this in women with PCOS is less certain. For example, in the best study of an unselected population in the U.S., i.e., women applying for jobs at an academic medical center, there were no significant differences in the prevalence of PCOS or stigmata of PCOS, such as hirsutism or elevated circulating androgen levels between white and black women (17). The broader Rotterdam criteria increase the prevalence of PCOS by 50% over the NIH criteria (19), and the prevalence according to the AES criteria is somewhere in between. PCOS is increasingly associated with obesity, and the obesity epidemic worldwide has been linked to an increased prevalence of PCOS (20). There are still marked differences in the prevalence of obesity and morbid obesity among women with PCOS according to country of origin as noted in Figure 3 . Obesity, and severe obesity appear to be less common in the European PCOS population (21) and in Asia.(22,23) It appears from the published literature that the U.S. tends to have the highest prevalence of severe obesity in its population and its PCOS population. Large multi-center trials of women with PCOS and infertility routinely report a mean BMI of 35 among study participants(24,25). While it is debated whether obesity per se can cause PCOS, there are mixed data supporting an increased population based prevalence of PCOS with increasing obesity.(26,27) Interestingly a European Genome Wide Association Study (GWAS) identified increasing BMI as a risk factor through Mendelian randomization analysis. (28) Figure 3 Distribution (counts on y axis) of BMI in women with PCOS from a large cohort of women diagnosed with PCOS in the United Kingdom ( N = 1741)(21) compared to that from a cohort in the United States ( N = 398) (Legro, unpublished data). Compare a mode of BMI of 20 for the UK women with a BMI of 35 for the
