Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


cohort in the United States ( N = 398) (Legro, unpublished data). Compare a mode of BMI of 20 for the UK women with a BMI of 35 for the U.S. women. Etiology and Pathophysiology The genetic contribution to PCOS has been closely studied in recent years with multiple Genome Wide Association Studies (GWAS) reporting results in European(28,29) and Han Chinese Cohorts (22,23). However, these GWAS’s have only identified candidate gene regions that explain a small proportion of the heritability of PCOS (i.e., less than 10%). There is currently no recommended genetic screening test for PCOS. While genes likely contribute to the PCOS phenotype, the GWAS findings support that PCOS is a complex genetic trait. Interestingly the GWASs from all groups have identified regions of the genome associated with gonadotropin production or action (i.e., gonadotropin receptors), supporting a primary hypothalamic-pituitary dysfunction in the etiology of the syndrome. However, many of the significant GWAS genes or regions do not have a clear functional relationship to the clinical presentation of PCOS. An example is the DENND1A gene, which encodes a protein named connecdenn 1, which has a clathrin-binding domain and is thought to facilitate endocytosis and receptor mediated turnover, including of gonadotropin and insulin receptors. A variant of this gene over expressed in human thecal cells created excess androgen production and could be knocked down to restore a normoandrogenic phenotype.(30) There have not been studies to date on the effects of this variant on insulin action. No specific environmental substance has been identified as causing PCOS, although certain medications such as valproate have been shown in vitro (31) or in clinical series in women with epilepsy to induce hyperandrogenism (32). Obesity, however, likely increases its prevalence (as noted above and discussed in pathophysiology below). There has been much interest and suspicion that environmental disrupting chemicals (EDCs) may also contribute to PCOS. However, the data are sparse, although there have been reports of an association between PCOS and elevated levels of Bisphenol A (BPA). However, such association studies are similar to the early genetic association studies examining single alleles with a disorder in which there was a high rate of false positive associations, not replicated in larger studies or studies of multiple variants. When multiple EDCs are measured, the associations become more difficult to interpret.(33) There are three common theories for the etiology of PCOS: one that it is due to hypothalamic-pituitary dysfunction,
