Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


When multiple EDCs are measured, the associations become more difficult to interpret.(33) There are three common theories for the etiology of PCOS: one that it is due to hypothalamic-pituitary dysfunction, the second that it is due to ovarian (and adrenal) hyperandrogenism, and the third that it is primarily a disorder of peripheral insulin resistance. We will address each theory in turn. Primary Disordered Gonadotropin Secretion. The first biochemical abnormality that was identified in women with PCOS was disordered gonadotropin secretion, with a preponderance of LH relative to FSH. As the two-cell theory of the ovary evolved, i.e., that thecal cells can only produce androgens under stimulation of LH whereas granulosa cells can only aromatize androgens from the theca cells into estrogens under the influence of FSH, this preponderance of LH was thought to be the primary etiology of the syndrome. Excess LH led to excess thecal cell development and androgen production, but in the face of inadequate FSH stimulation of granulosa cell development and aromatase production, these androgens were not converted to estrogen, leading to multiple abnormalities. The GWAS studies which have identified the FSH and LH/hCG receptor genes as potential contributors to the PCOS phenotype support this etiologic claim. This theory explained the morphology of the ovary, hirsutism, and anovulation. Androgen excess led to ovarian follicular arrest in the preantral stage, as estrogen is critical to the development and selection of a dominant follicle. The ovary thus contained multiple small preantral follicles due to this ongoing process and increased central stroma due to excessive thecal and stromal hyperplasia from the disordered gonadotropin exposure. Secondarily this resulted in spillover of excess androgens into the circulating pool, resulting in inappropriate feedback to the hypothalamic-pituitary axis and a vicious feedback loop where excess LH leads to excess ovarian androgen production which in turn leads to further LH. Finally the excess circulating androgen led to stimulation of the pilosebaceous unit, increasing sebum production, inducing terminal hair differentiation, and in rare instances in the scalp leading to pilosebaceous unit atresia and androgenic alopecia. Studies of gonadotropin secretion in women with PCOS have established that women have augmented release of LH in response to a GnRH challenge with appropriate increases in FSH secretion (34). This has led to the use of a GnRH challenge test to diagnose PCOS by some investigative groups (35); however, this requires blood tests up to 24h after the challenge and
