Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


has led to the use of a GnRH challenge test to diagnose PCOS by some investigative groups (35); however, this requires blood tests up to 24h after the challenge and is unwieldy in a clinical setting. Similarly, random serum samples of LH tend to have poor sensitivity and specificity for diagnosing PCOS (36). This is because of the variability of serum levels due to the pulsatile secretion of the hormones and is also due to modifying factors such as concurrent medications and conditions, most importantly obesity. Obesity tends to blunt baseline LH levels and GnRH stimulated levels in women with PCOS (37), although their responses remains elevated when compared to appropriate age and weight matched control women. The ontogeny of disordered gonadotropin secretion may lie in the hyperandrogenemia of puberty, as the GnRH pulse generator shows an insensitivity to progesterone feedback in hyperandrogenic obese adolescent girls, thus perpetuating the state of disordered gonadotropin secretion.(38,39) Primary Ovarian and Adrenal Hyperandrogenism. Because most diagnostic criteria support the notion that PCOS is an ovarian disorder, it becomes therefore the prime target for the cause of the syndrome. Ovarian steroidogenesis is perturbed in the syndrome with increased circulating androgen levels frequently noted in women with stigmata of PCOS. Further intrafollicular androgen levels tend to be elevated in antral follicles, supporting a lack of adequate granulosa aromatase activity (40). As noted above, a primary defect in ovarian steroidogenesis could lead through the same feedback loop noted above to disordered gonadotropin secretion and stigmata of peripheral hyperandrogenism. including acne, hirsutism, and alopecia. Thecal cells from women with PCOS put into long term culture exhibit defects in steroidogenesis. including hyperproduction of androgens, implying this is a permanent and possibly genetic defect in the cells (41). Family studies also support a high prevalence of hyperandrogenemia and hyperandrogenism in first degree relatives of women with PCOS (42-44), further supporting a familial contribution to these stigmata. Finally, 20-30% of women with PCOS have evidence of adrenal hyperandrogenism, primarily based on elevated levels of DHEAS, an androgen marker of adrenal function (45), suggesting that the defect in steroidogenesis is primary and affects both androgen secreting glands, i.e., the ovary and the adrenal. Further there is familial clustering of elevated DHEAS levels in PCOS families in both female and male relatives, again supporting a heritable component to this trait (42,44,46). However, to date, no specific genetic abnormality in the GWAS studies has
