Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


in PCOS families in both female and male relatives, again supporting a heritable component to this trait (42,44,46). However, to date, no specific genetic abnormality in the GWAS studies has been noted in steroidogenic enzymes or factors to explain the hyperandrogenism (47) (22,23,28,29). Further it is simplistic to imply that this defect is permanent. First, at least in terms of phenotype and androgen levels, it does not manifest till menarche and appears to resolve with menopause, implying this is not a constitutional phenotypic characteristic. Second, hyperandrogenism can be ameliorated by treatment with suppressive hormonal therapies or conversely with ovulation induction. Polycystic ovaries are a recognized risk factor for ovarian hyperstimulation characterized by multiple and excessive follicular development, elevated circulating levels, and after exposure to human chorionic gonadotropin, massive ovarian enlargement, vascular permeability, and accumulation of abdominal ascites. This response appears consistent more with baseline inhibition of certain aspects of steroidogenesis combined with exaggerated ovarian response to a given challenge than a primary defect in steroidogenesis per se . Other ovarian factors than disordered steroidogenesis may contribute to PCOS. For example there appears to be an increased density of small preantral follicles in polycystic ovaries (48). This could result from increased numbers of germ cells in the fetal ovary, from decreased loss of oocytes with age, or from decreased rate of loss of oocytes during late gestation, childhood, and puberty. Indeed, there is evidence in vitro to support increased survival and diminished atresia of PCOS follicles (49). Primary Disorder of Insulin Resistance. Women with PCOS show multiple abnormalities in insulin action. Dynamic studies of insulin action, including hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamps and frequently sampled intravenous glucose tolerance tests, have shown that women with PCOS are more insulin resistant than weight-matched control women, a defect primarily present in skeletal muscle (50,51). Early in the ontogeny of the syndrome, as in the ontogeny of type 2 diabetes, this is characterized by increased pancreatic beta cell production of insulin to control ambient glucose levels. Thus many women with PCOS have fasting and meal-challenged hyperinsulinemia (52). However, this compensatory response by the pancreatic beta cell is often inadequate for the degree of peripheral insulin resistance leading initially to postpandrial hyperglycemia in these women and eventually to fasting hyperglycemia (51,53). Further the beta cell response appears to be dysschronous, implying a further beta cell defect in these women, and is responsive to treatment with insulin sensitizing agents
