Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


fasting hyperglycemia (51,53). Further the beta cell response appears to be dysschronous, implying a further beta cell defect in these women, and is responsive to treatment with insulin sensitizing agents such as thiazolidinediones (54). Hyperinsulinemia and/or disordered insulin action may perturb the reproductive axis in multiple ways. First insulin may act at the hypothalamic-pituitary axis to stimulate gonadotropin production. Infusions of insulin tend to have little effect on gonadotropin production in human studies, and insulin is not required for glucose transport into the nervous system. In animal cell culture models, insulin has been found to enhance pituitary gonadotropin secretion (55). However, selective knock out of the insulin receptor in mouse models (the NIRKO mouse) exhibits increased food intake and fat mass, and an exaggerated response to GnRH stimulation (though their basal state in contrast to women with PCOS tends to be hypogonadotropic hypogonadism) (56). Thus, the evidence for a central action of insulin may be the weakest link in the insulin resistance PCOS hypothesis in humans, perhaps because it is the most difficult to investigate. Hyperinsulinemia is linked to ovarian and adrenal hyperandrogenism in a number of disorders of inherited insulin resistance with compensatory hyperinsulinemia including leprechaunism, the Rabson Mendenhall syndrome, and the lipodystrophies (57). These syndromes are characterized by selective tissue atrophy due to inability to utilize the primary anabolic hormone, insulin, and by excess gonadal androgen production. A less severe insulin resistance syndrome, the HAIR-AN syndrome, was defined on the basis of hyperinsulinemia, hyperandrogenemia, and the presence of acanthosis nigricans (a hyperproliferative skin condition found in skin folds due to insulin excess) and is more common (58). This link between hyperinsulinism and hypergonadism is thought to reflect the ability of insulin in certain conditions to stimulate gonadal and adrenal androgen production. Hyperandrogenism has been further linked to insulin resistance and stigmata of the insulin resistance syndrome in women with PCOS and in family studies of those with PCOS which have found increasing prevalence of the metabolic syndrome in family members with increasing androgen levels (59). Androgens also induce insulin resistance, best illustrated by the example of female-to-male transsexuals who have increased insulin resistance after supplementation with androgens (60). In vitro cultures of thecal cells from women with PCOS have been found to overproduce androgens in response to insulin supplementation (61). Further, as discussed below under therapeutic options, the use of insulin sensitizing agents, including both metformin and troglitazone
