Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


have been found to overproduce androgens in response to insulin supplementation (61). Further, as discussed below under therapeutic options, the use of insulin sensitizing agents, including both metformin and troglitazone have been associated with both lowering of circulating insulin levels and levels of both adrenal and ovarian androgens. Finally, increased levels of insulin are associated with the peripheral availability of sex steroids through an impact on circulating sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG). SHBG has been found to be partially regulated by circulating insulin levels with an inverse relationship (62). Decreasing levels of SHBG mean increasing levels of free and bioavailable androgens, especially since the preferred substrate of SHBG is androgens (as opposed to estrogen or progestin). Increased free androgens mean increased androgen action in the periphery, which can affect the pilosebaceous unit and the hypothalamic-pituitary axis. Some have recommended that low circulating SHBG levels may be a good marker for women with PCOS as hyperandrogemia can also suppress SHBG.(63) Thus insulin resistance can contribute to hyperandrogenism in many ways (64). Obesity per se is associated with insulin resistance and compensatory hyperinsulinemia. Obese women may be ovulatory but have longer follicular phases and thus longer menstrual cycles which could cause them to be misdiagnosed as oligo-ovulatory.(65) Similarly, as noted above, obesity may suppress circulating SHBG levels, leading to higher levels of free or bioavailable testosterone and leading again to the potential misdiagnosis of PCOS.(66) Clinical Presentation Women with PCOS commonly present with menstrual disorders (from amenorrhea to dysfunctional uterine bleeding) and infertility, as they have since the syndrome was first described. The compilation of presenting symptoms by Goldzieher et al. from the 1960’s is still relevant today ( Figure 4 ) (67), although obesity, as noted previously, is now much more prevalent in the U.S. population. Both due to the emphasis on menstrual history and the complaint of androgen excess (rare in children), PCOS classically presents at or after menarche. The phenotype in pubertal and pre-pubertal girls is debated; there is some evidence to suggest that premature pubarche places girls at increased risk for developing PCOS as they go through puberty. Premature pubarche presents in girls with hyperinsulinemia and elevated DHEAS levels. However, this can only account for a small fraction of women with PCOS, as the prevalence of premature pubarche is a small fraction of PCOS. A national registry of all children in Denmark estimated the prevalence of premature pubarche in
