Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


women with PCOS, as the prevalence of premature pubarche is a small fraction of PCOS. A national registry of all children in Denmark estimated the prevalence of premature pubarche in the Danish population at 22 to 23 cases per 10,000 girls, i.e., 0.0002% (68). At the other end of the reproductive spectrum, both menstrual irregularity (69) and hyperandrogenemia (70) appear to normalize as women with PCOS approach the perimenopause and menopause. Whether these completely normalize is unknown; for instance, mothers of women with PCOS have elevated testosterone levels compared to controls, suggesting that mild elevations may be familial and persist (43). Figure 4 A classic reference indicating the prevalence of various presenting clinical symptoms and complaints among a large cohort of women with PCOS ( N = 1089) culled from 187 previously published papers (67). The frequency is still relevant to today’s population of women with PCOS. Skin disorders, especially those due to peripheral androgen excess, such as hirsutism and acne, and to a lesser degree androgenic alopecia, are common in women with PCOS and frequently the presenting complaint. Obesity is frequently characterized by a centripetal distribution. This can be diagnosed by an elevated waist circumference (> 88 cm). A history of weight gain may sometimes precede the onset of oligomenorrhea and hirsutism, leading to the suspicion that this is an acquired form of PCOS secondary to obesity. All women with PCOS should have a BMI determined at baseline and at regular visits. Other complaints which must be elicited are screens for mood disorders and depression, as many women with PCOS suffer from low self-esteem due to obesity, disfiguring hirsutism, and infertility. Clinical Sequelae of PCOS: Although the endocrine and reproductive features of the disorder may improve with age, the associated metabolic abnormalities, particularly glucose intolerance, may actually worsen with age. We shall now discuss common sequelae of PCOS including infertility due to ovulatory dysfunction, abnormalities of the pilosebaceous unit, certain gynecological cancers, type 2 and gestational DM, and cardiovascular disease (CVD). Infertility due to Chronic Anovulation: Women with PCOS are not generally sterile, but subfertile due to the infrequency and unpredictability of their ovulations. Some women with PCOS might tend to conceive later in life as ovulatory function improves (71), although many women now seek treatment earlier in their reproductive lives. As a rule, women with PCOS represent one of the most difficult groups in whom to induce ovulation
