Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


(71), although many women now seek treatment earlier in their reproductive lives. As a rule, women with PCOS represent one of the most difficult groups in whom to induce ovulation both successfully and safely. Many women with PCOS are unresponsive or resistant to ovulation induction with clomiphene citrate. They may have an inappropriate or exaggerated response to the administration of human menopausal gonadotropins (menotropins) and are at increased risk for ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS). OHSS is a syndrome of massive enlargement of the ovaries, development of rapid and symptomatic ascites, intravascular contraction, hypercoagulability, and systemic organ dysfunction. It can be life threatening and is best prevented. Increasing obesity may blunt the risk for developing the syndrome (72). These complications occur generally following treatment with menotropins, although ovarian hyperstimulation has even been reported in women with PCOS conceiving a singleton pregnancy spontaneously, or after clomiphene or pulsatile GnRH use (73). In addition to anovulation, endometrial pathology such as hyperplasia may lead to implantation failure in women with PCOS.(74) Induced menstrual bleeding prior to ovulation induction may be associated with lower rates of subsequent pregnancy.(75) Skin Disorders: Skin disorders in women with PCOS revolve primarily around abnormalities of the pilosebaceous unit. The development of hirsutism, acne or androgenic alopecia in PCOS has been attributed to the increased systemic and local production of androgens (see above) that activate abnormal development of the pilosebaceous unit. While insulin is essential for hair follicle growth in vitro , it is unclear whether the hyperinsulinemia of PCOS directly stimulates fine vellus hair to transform into thick, dark terminal hair with the development of hirsutism (76). Generally the ontogeny of abnormalities in the pilosebaceous unit tends to proceed from acne in the peri-pubertal period to hirsutism as a young adult to androgenic alopecia in the mature adult. Androgenic alopecia is luckily rare among women with PCOS and its etiology also is complex (77). Apparently similar factors which stimulate terminal midline hair in lower body regions also lead to follicular atresia in the scalp. For the most part, treatments for hirsutism are also relevant for androgenic alopecia (i.e., androgen suppression and androgen antagonism). However, local vasodilators administered in a crème or lotion, i.e., minoxidil, have been shown to be effective for both male and female androgenic alopecia, whereas they have no known benefit on hirsutism. Other skin disorders that are common include acanthosis nigricans and an increased frequency of
