Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


effective for both male and female androgenic alopecia, whereas they have no known benefit on hirsutism. Other skin disorders that are common include acanthosis nigricans and an increased frequency of skin tags. Acanthosis nigricans is a dermatologic condition marked by velvety, mossy, verrucous, hyperpigmented skin. It has been noted on the back of the neck, in the axillae, underneath the breasts, and even on the vulva ( Figure 5 ). The presence of acanthosis nigricans appears to be more a sign of insulin resistance than a distinct disease unto itself. Figure 5 Acanthosis nigricans on the nape of the neck in a woman with PCOS. Gynecological Cancers: Many gynecological cancers have been reported to be more common in women with PCOS including ovarian, breast, and endometrial carcinomas. However, the best case of an association between PCOS and cancer can be made for endometrial cancer, as many risk factors for this cancer are present in the PCOS patient, and the epidemiological evidence of an increased incidence in this group of women is growing stronger, with an approximate three-fold increased risk (78,79). In an analysis of 176 patients with endometrial cancer, hirsutism, increased body mass index (BMI) and hypertension were significantly more common in all patients, and nulliparity and infertility significantly were more common among younger patients compared to controls (80,81). Sleep Apnea Multiple groups have documented an increased risk for sleep apnea and other sleep disorders, such as sleep disordered breathing in women with PCOS (82,83). This is notable as sleep apnea is relatively uncommon in women, especially premenopausal women ( Figure 6 ). Increased risk for these disorders in women with PCOS has been associated with both hyperandrogenism and insulin resistance PCOS (82,83). Poor sleep may contribute to a vicious metabolic cycle of worsening insulin resistance and glucose tolerance in women with PCOS.(84) It is perhaps too early to recommend universal screening in obese women with PCOS, but it should be considered in women undergoing bariatric surgery, as it is a predictor of morbidity and mortality in patients undergoing bypass surgery (85). Women with sleep disorders often complain of daytime sleepiness and fatigue after sleeping and may snore. Interestingly the traditional treatment for sleep apnea, i.e., continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP), has been found to improve insulin sensitivity, decrease sympathetic output, and reduce diastolic blood pressure in women with PCOS and sleep apnea.(86) Figure 6 Prevalence of sleep apnea and
