Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


(CPAP), has been found to improve insulin sensitivity, decrease sympathetic output, and reduce diastolic blood pressure in women with PCOS and sleep apnea.(86) Figure 6 Prevalence of sleep apnea and other sleep disorders in a cohort of women with PCOS and an unselected control group of women. Women with PCOS had an OR of sleep apnea of 29 (95% CI 5-294) compared to this control group (82). Non-alchoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). This disorder is fatty infiltration of the liver not due to alcohol abuse that is related to insulin resistance. Affected patients may have no symptoms or have mild, nonspecific symptoms such as fatigue or malaise. It is usually accompanied by elevated serum liver function tests, most commonly transaminases. Liver ultrasound may show steatosis, but liver biopsy remains the gold standard for diagnosis and shows evidence of inflammation and fibrosis. It may respond to weight loss and insulin sensitizing therapy. The prevalence of the disorder among women with PCOS is debated. A recent meta-analysis reported a nearly four-fold higher incidence of NAFLD among women with PCOS compared to controls.(87) While some reports have noted an increased prevalence, a recent multi-center trial that screened over 1,000 women with PCOS found that only a small fraction (~5%) had elevated liver transaminases (24). This prevalence is comparable to that found in the U.S. population in the NHANES survey. Routine screening is probably unnecessary at this time and is not recommended by practice guidelines.(11) Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus. The inherent insulin resistance present in many with PCOS, aggravated by the high prevalence of obesity in these individuals, places these women at increased risk for impaired glucose tolerance and type 2 DM. About 30% to 40% of obese reproductive-aged PCOS women have been found to have impaired glucose tolerance (IGT), and about 10% have frank type 2 DM based on a 2-hour glucose level > 200mg/dL (72)(88,89). Of note is that only a small fraction of women with PCOS and with either IGT or type 2 DM display fasting hyperglycemia consistent with diabetes as defined by the American Diabetes Association criteria (fasting glucose ³ 126 mg/dL) ( Figure 7 ). In other PCOS populations with lower rates of obesity, the prevalence of impaired glucose tolerance is also lower, although higher than in control groups (90). The risk factors associated with glucose intolerance in women with PCOS—age, high body mass index (BMI), high waist–hip ratios,
