Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


tolerance is also lower, although higher than in control groups (90). The risk factors associated with glucose intolerance in women with PCOS—age, high body mass index (BMI), high waist–hip ratios, and family history of diabetes—are identical to those in other populations. The conversion rate to glucose intolerance varies depending on the population studied (91,92). However, because glucose tolerance tends to worsen with age, periodic rescreening every 3-5 years is recommended in patients with normal glucose tolerance. However, the level of insulin resistance found in women with PCOS based on dynamic measures of insulin action is comparable to that found in other populations (i.e., children of parents with diabetes) associated with a marked increased risk of developing type 2 DM. Recently there has been interest in substituting screening for dysglycemia with measurement of glycohemoglobin (HgbA1c) level rather than oral glucose challenge. However, HgbA1c will tend to miss most of the women with impaired glucose tolerance (close to three quarters(93)), and this is not recommended as it will miss most of the patients who may benefit from intervention to arrest or slow the progression to diabetes. Routine oral glucose tolerance screening has been recommended in populations such as the Chinese with lower risk factor profiles than the U.S. population.(94) Figure 7 Distribution of glucose tolerance (NGT= normal glucose tolerance or 2h glucose < 140 mg/dL, IGT = impaired glucose tolerance or 2h glucose 140-199 mg/dL, Type 2 DM = 2h glucose ≥ 200 mg/dL) by fasting glucose level in a large cohort (N = 254) women with PCOS. The vertical lines at 110 mg/dL and 126 mg/dL on the fasting glucose x axis indicate the thresholds for impaired fasting glucose and type 2 diabetes by fasting levels (89). Cardiovascular Disease. Many of the studies suggesting an increased incidence of CVD are inferential based on risk factor models, with little evidence of increased or premature onset of CVD events such as stroke or myocardial infarction (95). There is a lack of prospective studies showing increased risk of cardiovascular events in women with PCOS. However, several cohort studies, including the Nurse’s Health Study, have suggested an increased risk of CVD disease or events in the presence of increasing oligomenorrhea. In this study, there was no determination of hyperandrogenism, so many of the cases may have had another menstrual disorder (96). This is a key confounder as women with primary ovarian insufficiency and prolonged estrogen
