Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


LDL levels than age, sex, and weight-matched controls (106,107). The elevation in LDL levels is somewhat atypical for the insulin resistance syndrome. Women with PCOS, at least in later life, also appear to have a higher risk of developing hypertension (108,109). Metabolic syndrome appears very common among women with PCOS and in a report from the baseline cohort recruited to one large multi-center trial (including subjects with type 2 diabetes), the prevalence was 33.4% (59). The most common finding was a waist circumference greater than 88 cm in 80% followed by an abnormal high-density lipoprotein cholesterol of less than 50 mg/dl ( Figure 9 ). Conversely what most protected against the metabolic syndrome was a normal waist circumference. Figure 9 Prevalence of components of the metabolic syndrome among a large cohort of women with PCOS. HDL = high-density lipoprotein cholesterol less than 50 mg/dl; TTG= triglycerides greater than or equal to 150 mg/dl; HTN = blood pressure greater than or equal to 130/85 mm Hg; IFG = fasting glucose concentrations greater than or equal to 110 mg/dl (impaired fasting glucose). Mood Disorders. Women with PCOS appear to be at increased risk for diminished quality of life and mood disorders (110). Specifically they suffer from increased rates of anxiety(111) and depression(112) compared to other women. The magnitude is significant as noted in one study in which women with PCOS were at an increased risk for depressive disorders (new cases) compared with controls (21% vs. 3%; odds ratio 5.11 [95% confidence interval (CI) 1.26-20.69]; P<0.03) (113) A validated quality of life (QoL) questionnaire has been developed for women with PCOS (PCOSQ) (114). Recently a large controlled study of over 100 women (N = 1359) found a high prevalence of low quality of life in women with PCOS (110). Women with PCOS had lower quality of life on all seven factors of the modified PCOSQ (emotional disturbance, weight, infertility, acne, menstrual symptoms, menstrual predictability and hirsutism). Weight was the largest contributor to poor quality of life for women on and off medication for their PCOS. Clinical studies to date have incorporated QoL measures into the trial design. A recent substudy of a clinical trial examining OCP and weight loss and the combination of the two in women found both weight loss and OCP use result in significant improvements in quality of life, depressive symptoms, and anxiety disorders with possible added benefit to the
