Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


the two in women found both weight loss and OCP use result in significant improvements in quality of life, depressive symptoms, and anxiety disorders with possible added benefit to the combined therapies.(115) Differential Diagnosis of PCOS The differential diagnosis of PCOS includes other causes of androgen excess ( Table 1 ), and PCOS remains a diagnosis of exclusion. Because the work up for many of these disorders is expensive and tests have varying degrees of sensitivity and specificity, some clinical acumen must be applied in the selection of tests. Generally, every woman with signs and symptoms of PCOS should be screened for thyroid dysfunction, prolactin excess, and non-classical congenital adrenal hyperplasia. These diagnoses occur relatively more commonly among women with menstrual disorders, and there are good screening tests to diagnose them. Both hyper- and hypothyroidism have been associated with menstrual disturbances, although their link with hyperandrogenism is less proven. Mild elevations in prolactin are common in women with PCOS (116). A prolactin level can identify prolactinomas that secrete large amounts of prolactin which may stimulate ovarian androgen production, but this is an extremely rare cause of hyperandrogenic chronic anovulation. Evaluating serum levels of thyroid-stimulating hormone is also useful, given the protean manifestations and frequency of thyroid disease in women with menstrual disorders. Non-classical congenital adrenal hyperplasia, often referred to as late-onset congenital adrenal hyperplasia, can present in adult women with anovulation and hirsutism and is due almost exclusively to genetic defects in the steroidogenic enzyme, 21 hydroxylase (CYP21). In Europe and the U.S., congenital adrenal hyperplasia occurs with the highest frequency among Ashkenazi Jews, followed by Hispanics, Yugoslavs, Native American Inuit in Alaska, and Italians (117). Increasingly mandatory postnatal genetic screening is diagnosing this in U.S. born infants. To screen for non-classical congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to CYP21 mutations, a fasting level of 17-hydroxyprogesterone should be obtained in the morning. A value less than 2 ng/mL is considered normal. If the sample is obtained in the morning and during the follicular phase, some investigators have proposed cutoffs as high as 4 ng/mL (118). Specificity decreases if the sample is obtained in the luteal phase due to increased progesterone production. High levels of 17-hydroxyprogesterone should prompt an adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) stimulation test to confirm the diagnosis. As Cushing syndrome is extremely rare (1 in 1,000,000) and screening tests are not 100% sensitive or specific (119), routine screening for Cushing syndrome in
