Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


test to confirm the diagnosis. As Cushing syndrome is extremely rare (1 in 1,000,000) and screening tests are not 100% sensitive or specific (119), routine screening for Cushing syndrome in all women with hyperandrogenic chronic anovulation is not indicated. Those who have coexisting signs of Cushing syndrome, including a moon facies, buffalo hump, abdominal striae, centripetal fat distribution, or hypertension, should be screened. Proximal myopathies and easy bruising, not typically present in women with PCOS, may also help identify patients with Cushing syndrome. Androgen-secreting tumors of the ovary or adrenal gland are invariably accompanied by elevated circulating androgen levels. However, there is no absolute level that is pathognomonic for a tumor, just as there is no minimum androgen level that excludes a tumor. In the past, testosterone levels above 2 ng/mL and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS) levels greater than 700 µg/dL were regarded as suspicious for a tumor of, respectively, ovarian and adrenal etiology, but these cutoff levels have poor sensitivity and specificity (120). Evaluation of women with PCOS History and physical exam is important in evaluation of women with PCOS ( Table 2 ). The history should focus on the onset (peri-pubertal vs acquired later in life) of oligomenorrhea, the onset and duration of the various signs of androgen excess, and concomitant medications, including the use of exogenous androgens. While many medications are associated with hypertrichosis, a generalized increase in body hair, few are associated with increased midline androgen-dependent terminal hair growth. A family history of diabetes and cardiovascular disease (especially first-degree relatives with premature onset of cardiovascular disease [male < 55 years and female < 65 years]) is important. Additionally, multiple studies have shown that PCOS clusters in families, such that a sister or mother with PCOS likely increases risk for the disorder or stigmata of the disorder in other family members. Lifestyle factors such as smoking, alcohol consumption, diet, and exercise are particularly important in these women. An astonishingly high number of women with PCOS are either current or past smokers. In one large multi-center trial, 17% were current smokers during the trial and 22% had a history of smoking (24). Further a history of recent smoking cessation may not be reliable when checked against urinary cotinine levels (a metabolite of nicotine).(121) Obviously for both fertility and prevention of cardiovascular disease, cessation should be a primary target of the treatment plan. Table 2: Disorders to Consider in the
