Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


(a metabolite of nicotine).(121) Obviously for both fertility and prevention of cardiovascular disease, cessation should be a primary target of the treatment plan. Table 2: Disorders to Consider in the Differential Diagnosis of PCOS Androgen secreting tumor Exogenous androgens Cushing syndrome Nonclassical congenital adrenal hyperplasia Acromegaly Genetic defects in insulin action (Leprechaunism, Rabson Mendenhall syndrome, Lipodystrophy) HAIR-AN syndrome Primary hypothalamic amenorrhea Primary ovarian failure Thyroid disease Prolactin disorders The physical examination should include evaluation of balding, acne, clitoromegaly, and body hair distribution, as well as pelvic examination to look for ovarian enlargement. The presence and severity of acne should be noted. Signs of insulin resistance such as hypertension, obesity, centripetal fat distribution, and the presence of acanthosis nigricans should be recorded. Other pathologic conditions associated with acanthosis nigricans should be considered, such as insulinoma and malignant disease, especially adenocarcinoma of the stomach. The laboratory examination of patients should include tests at initial presentation to exclude other diagnoses as well as to evaluate circulating androgen ( Table 3 ). The best measurement of circulating androgens to document unexplained androgen excess is a subject of debate, and recent expert consensus panels have recommended standardized testosterone assays and normative values for women and children (122). While mass spectrometry is increasingly becoming the gold standard for measurement of all sex steroids(123), studies have shown that even mass spectrometry has poor precision towards the lower levels seen in normal women.(124) Thus, there remains controversy about how to measure androgens in women. Table 3: Focused History and Physical Exam components for Evaluation for PCOS History Onset and Duration of Oligo-ovulation History of weight gain Family history for PCOS, Diabetes, CVD, Endometrial Cancer, etc Infertility (also screen for male and tubal factors) Smoking and substance abuse Physical Blood pressure BMI (weight in kg divided by height in m 2 ) 25–30 = overweight, > 30 = obese Waist circumference to determine body fat distribution Value > 35 in = abnormal Presence of stigmata of hyperandrogenism/insulin resistance Acne, hirsutism, androgenic alopecia, skin tags, acanthosis nigricans Both the adrenal glands and ovaries contribute to the circulating androgen pool in women. The adrenal gland preferentially secretes weak androgens such as dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) or DHEAS (up to 90% of adrenal origin). These hormones, in addition to androstenedione, may serve as prohormones for more potent androgens such as testosterone and dihydrotestosterone. The ovary is the preferential source of testosterone, and it is
