Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


These hormones, in addition to androstenedione, may serve as prohormones for more potent androgens such as testosterone and dihydrotestosterone. The ovary is the preferential source of testosterone, and it is estimated that 75% of circulating testosterone originates from the ovary (mainly through peripheral conversion of prohormones by liver, fat, and skin, but also through direct secretion). Androstenedione, largely of ovarian origin, is the only circulating androgen that is higher in premenopausal women than in men, yet its androgenic potency is only 10% of testosterone. Dihydrotestosterone is the most potent androgen, although it circulates in negligible quantities and results primarily from the intracellular 5a-reduction of testosterone. Many studies attempting to identify the best circulating androgen for differentiating women with PCOS from control women have usually identified testosterone, androstenedione or both. (66,125) Each clinician should be familiar with the analytical performance and the normal ranges of local laboratories, as there is no standardized testosterone assay (and no accepted testosterone standard) in the U.S. and the sensitivity and reliability in the female ranges are often poor (122). Evaluation of DHEAS levels may be useful in cases of rapid virilization (as a marker of adrenal origin), but its utility in assessing common hirsutism is questionable. The Rotterdam criteria have led to increasing use of ultrasound in the initial diagnosis and evaluation of women with PCOS ( Table 4 ). In addition to ovarian size, ultrasound can exclude leiomyomas and most mullerian anomalies and the determine the thickness of the endometrium. Some studies have found very high asymptomatic rates of endometrial hyperplasia among amenorrheic women with PCOS (126). However. routine screening with ultrasound of the endometrium or routine endometrial biopsy is not recommended in the absence of abnormal uterine bleeding. Table 4 : Suggested Laboratory and Radiologic Examination of women with PCOS Laboratory Documentation of biochemical hyperandrogenemia Total testosterone and SHBGor bioavailable/free testosterone Exclusion of other causes of hyperandrogenism Thyroid-stimulating hormone levels (thyroid dysfunction) Prolactin (hyperprolactinemia) 17-hydroxyprogesterone (nonclassical congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 21 hydroxylase deficiency) Random normal level < 4 ng/mL or morning fasting level < 2 ng/mL Consider screening for Cushing syndrome and other rare disorders such as acromegaly Evaluation for metabolic abnormalities 2-hour oral glucose tolerance test (fasting glucose < 110 mg/dL = normal, 110–125 mg/dL = impaired, >126 mg/dL = type 2 diabetes) followed by 75-g oral glucose ingestion and then 2-hour glucose level (< 140 mg/dL = normal glucose tolerance,
