Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


= normal, 110–125 mg/dL = impaired, >126 mg/dL = type 2 diabetes) followed by 75-g oral glucose ingestion and then 2-hour glucose level (< 140 mg/dL = normal glucose tolerance, 140–199 mg/dL = impaired glucose tolerance, >200 mg/dL = type 2 diabetes) Fasting lipid and lipoprotein level (total cholesterol, HDL < 50 mg/dL abnormal, triglycerides > 150 mg/dL abnormal Ultrasound Examination Determination of polycystic ovaries Identify endometrial abnormalities Optional Tests to Consider Gonadotropin determinations to determine cause of amenorrhea Fasting insulin levels in younger women, those with severe stigmata of insulin resistance and hyperandrogenism 24-hour urine test for urinary free cortisol with late onset of PCOS symptoms or stigmata of Cushing syndrome The metabolic evaluation of women with PCOS has become a standard part of the evaluation. Exclusion of diabetes and identification of glucose intolerance can be obtained with a standard 75g oral glucose tolerance test. At the same time a fasting lipid profile can be obtained. The routine use of insulin levels in the diagnosis and management of women with PCOS is probably not indicated, as they are poor markers of insulin resistance if there is beta cell dysfunction and they have not been found to predict response to therapy. The identification of the metabolic syndrome is a better clinical marker of insulin resistance. Approach to TREATMENT OF WOMEN WITH PCOS Treatment of women with PCOS tends to be symptom based, as there are few therapies which address the multitude of complaints with which women with PCOS present. Arguably there are currently only two therapies that address the most common complaints, (i.e., infertility, hirsutism, menstrual disorders, and obesity) and these are either weight loss (as a result of lifestyle modification, medical or surgical therapy to reduce weight, or metformin therapy) ( Table 5 ). It is often difficult to treat all complaints at once, with the greatest difficulty in treating both anovulatory infertility and hirsutism concurrently.(127) Some therapies can also be counterproductive and thus contraindicated in this situation, for instance the use of oral contraceptives because they block ovulation or the use of anti-androgens because they are potentially teratogenic in a male fetus. Because of these conundrums in clinical care, treatment tends to fall into two categories: either the treatment of anovulatory infertility or long-term maintenance treatment for PCOS-related symptoms (i.e., hirsutism, menstrual disorders, obesity, etc.) Table 5: Commonly used or proposed treatments for PCOS or stigmata of PCOS.
