Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


treatment of anovulatory infertility or long-term maintenance treatment for PCOS-related symptoms (i.e., hirsutism, menstrual disorders, obesity, etc.) Table 5: Commonly used or proposed treatments for PCOS or stigmata of PCOS. Many of these are used off label. Overview of Treatment of Anovulatory Infertility. One important consideration before treating subjects with anovulatory infertility is to screen the couple for other infertility factors. One large multi-center trial found that 10% of male partners of women with PCOS had co-existing severe oligospermia and close to 5% of women had bilateral occlusion of the fallopian tubes or some uterine factor (128). Obviously, the presence of these factors would significantly alter therapy, and their high prevalence justifies pre-treatment screening. There is no evidence-based schema to guide the initial and subsequent choices of approaches to ovulation induction in women with PCOS. The ASRM/ESHRE sponsored conference recommended that before any intervention is initiated, preconceptual counseling should emphasize the importance of lifestyle, especially weight reduction and exercise in overweight women, smoking cessation, and reducing alcohol consumption (129,130). The recommended ASRM/ESHRE first-line treatment for ovulation induction remains the anti-estrogen clomiphene citrate (CC), and this view has been upheld by other groups including the World Health Organization(131). However there is now increasing evidence that letrozole, an aromatase inhibitor, is more efficacious and equally safe to mother and fetus(132). Recommended second-line intervention, should be CC or the combination of metformin and CC if first line therapy fails to result in pregnancy. Third-line therapy is either exogenous gonadotropins or laparoscopic ovarian surgery (129,130). The caregiver must carefully assess the reproductive toxicity of all medications used in women with PCOS, because several may increase ovulatory frequency and result in unexpected and unintended pregnancy and possible fetal exposure. Recently the FDA eliminated the categorization of teratogenicity of medications into categories (i.e., Category A, B, C, D and X) and instead ruled that package inserts should provide specific data about teratogenic risks in animals and humans or acknowledge the lack of such data. Eventually all package inserts will be modified to reflect true risk as opposed to theoretical risk based on mechanism of action of the drug. Overview of Long Term Maintenance of PCOS. There is no known cure for PCOS; rather therapy revolves around suppression of symptoms. Therapy tends to focus on the primary chief complaint. However often the triad of hirsutism, oligomenorrhea, and obesity forms the key presenting symptoms. In such cases, it
