Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


suppression of symptoms. Therapy tends to focus on the primary chief complaint. However often the triad of hirsutism, oligomenorrhea, and obesity forms the key presenting symptoms. In such cases, it may make sense to choose a primary metabolic parameter upon which to base initial treatment. Glucose intolerance is the strongest risk factor for diabetes and is also an independent risk factor for cardiovascular events in women(133) and is one potential factor to use in selecting initial treatment. A possible first-line strategy is found in Figure 11 , which allows selection of the therapies that improve the triad of PCOS symptoms. Additional targeted therapies for hirsutism and/or oligomenorrhea could be added depending on response to the initial therapy. Obviously, contraception should be considered if the patient is trying to avoid pregnancy. Figure 10 Suggested first-line treatment plan for infertile women with PCOS. Figure 11 Suggested first line treatment plan for women with PCOS not seeking pregnancy. Review of Efficacy of Individual Therapies on PCOS Aromatase Inhibitors Aromatase inhibitors, specifically letrozole, may be a first-line therapy for ovulation induction in women with PCOS. While the mechanism of action of aromatase inhibitors is likely similar to clomiphene in that the target is the hypothalamic pituitary axis and the normalization of gonadotropin secretion, the site of action may be multifocal, i.e., in the hypothalamus, in peripheral fat tissues, and perhaps even in the ovary. The proposed benefits of letrozole include oral administration, a shorter half-life than clomiphene, more favorable effects on the endometrium, potentially higher implantation rates, and lower multiple pregnancy rates due to monofollicular ovulation.(134) A large multicenter study conducted by the Reproductive Medicine Network of letrozole versus clomiphene upheld many of these hypotheses and showed a 44% improvement in the live birth rate with letrozole over clomiphene.(25) The greatest benefit was in the moderately obese group, though a tertile analysis trended towards benefit of letrozole over clomiphene in all weight classes ( Figure 12 ). Subsequent studies have replicated these results and the meta-analysis suggests a 50-60% live birth benefit with letrozole over clomiphene.(132) Although the trend in the Reproductive Medicine Network study was towards a lower multiple pregnancy rate with letrozole versus clomiphene (3.9% vs 6.8%), even larger studies will be necessary to confirm this trend.(135) Letrozole offers a higher per cycle and cumulative ovulation rate than clomiphene. Only 10% of women failed to ovulate at least once in the Reproductive
