Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


necessary to confirm this trend.(135) Letrozole offers a higher per cycle and cumulative ovulation rate than clomiphene. Only 10% of women failed to ovulate at least once in the Reproductive Medicine Network study compared to close to 25% of women on clomiphene. There is also better fecundity per ovulated patient, suggesting a better quality of ovulation. When the results of a midluteal ovulation check (by both ultrasound and serum assays) are compared to baseline in the follicular phase, women with PCOS on letrozole have higher progesterone levels and lower estradiol levels, thus with a more physiologic hormonal milieu than with clomiphene. Women also have a relatively thinner endometrium on letrozole (against expectation) and lower antral follicle counts and AMH levels relative to clomiphene. Again, this suggests normalization of endometrial response and ovarian morphology with letrozole. Figure 12 Tertile Analysis by BMI group of women with PCOS of live birth rate over time randomized to clomiphene or letrozole. Safety has been closely studied in randomized trials of letrozole for ovulation induction in women with PCOS. Relative to clomiphene, letrozole is associated with significantly more fatigue and dizziness, but fewer episodes of hot flashes.(25) There is no increased incidence of serious adverse events with letrozole, and no clear pattern or relationship to the drug. Paramount to the use of letrozole is the concern about teratogenicity with letrozole relative to clomiphene. In two large studies using letrozole conducted by the Reproductive Medicine Network, the anomaly rates were comparable between clomiphene and letrozole.(25,136) In both studies they were under 5% with both drugs and within expected rates, especially when acknowledging that subfertile women have higher rates of fetal anomalies than women who conceive without assistance. Further there was no pattern to the reported anomalies, suggesting that a specific organ or organ system was altered by letrozole exposure. Case series have also supported the relative fetal safety of letrozole compared to clomiphene.(137-139) Finally such studies must consider that the underlying rate of congenital anomalies is higher among women with a history of subfertility or who have conceived through fertility treatments.(140) Although letrozole is not recommended as a fertility treatment agent in certain countries due to black box warnings, the source of this concern is unwarranted without supporting published data. There are still many unanswered questions about letrozole including its use as an adjuvant agent with other medications used to treat PCOS, whether it is effective
