Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


without supporting published data. There are still many unanswered questions about letrozole including its use as an adjuvant agent with other medications used to treat PCOS, whether it is effective as a second-line solo treatment after clomiphene, and whether prolonged dosing would increase pregnancy rates. Of note is that anastrozole failed both as a high dose one-time administration to women with PCOS(141) and also as a lower dose multi-day therapy compared to clomiphene,(142) so all aromatase inhibitors are not alike. Clomiphene Citrate. Clomiphene citrate (CC) has traditionally been the first-line treatment agent for anovulatory women, including those with PCOS, and several multi-center randomized controlled trials have upheld the use of clomiphene as first-line treatment. In fact, this may the area of study of PCOS with the largest and best designed studies. Clomiphene is a triphenylethylene derived nonsteroidal agent that is theorized to function at the level of the hypothalamus as an anti-estrogen to improve gonadotropin secretion. CC use is associated with hot flashes, mood changes, and rarely changes in vision thought due to pituitary swelling (thought to be a serious event and reason for discontinuing the drug). From a public health perspective, more concerning is the relatively high rate of multiple pregnancy after conception with clomiphene of 7.8%, although the majority are twins (143). However, there is nevertheless a high order (triplets or more) multiple pregnancy rate of 0.9% (143). Comparison of the multiple pregnancy rate after conception with clomiphene suggests that the multiple pregnancy rate may be slightly higher in women with unexplained infertility(136) than in women with PCOS (25), although the lower rate in women with PCOS may also be related to higher obesity rates. Six-month life birth rates range from 20-30%(25) and are higher over longer periods of observation (144). Half of all women who are going to conceive using clomiphene will do so at the 50-mg starting dose, and another 20% will do so at the 100-mg/d dose (145). Most pregnancies will occur within the first six ovulatory cycles, although constant monthly pregnancy rates were noted, suggesting there may be continued benefit to longer use (146). Prognostic clinical factors for live birth with clomiphene include decreased BMI, less hirsutism, younger age, and shorter duration of attempted conception(147,148). Alternative clomiphene regimens have been developed, including prolonging the period of administration (149), pretreating with oral contraceptives (150) adding dexamethasone (151), and adding metformin (152). Dexamethasone as adjunctive therapy
