Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


conception(147,148). Alternative clomiphene regimens have been developed, including prolonging the period of administration (149), pretreating with oral contraceptives (150) adding dexamethasone (151), and adding metformin (152). Dexamethasone as adjunctive therapy with clomiphene citrate has been shown to increase ovulation and pregnancy rates in clomiphene-resistant women with PCOS (153). Finally some groups have recommended using similar compounds to clomiphene, such as tamoxifen, in lieu of clomiphene (154). Clomiphene is usually started at 50 mg a day for 5 days and increased by 50 mg a day in subsequent cycles if the patient remains anovulatory up to a maximum daily dose of 150 mg/d. As noted above, induced withdrawal bleeding in the face of continued anovulation may lower subsequent ovulation and pregnancy rates and certainly requires more time and resources. This has led to the adoption of a “stair step” approach where the dose is escalated based on ultrasound and serum determination of follicular development and/or ovulation.(155) The primary discomfiting side effect with clomiphene is hot flashes, likely due to its anti-estrogenic effects in the hypothalamus. Rare side effects that require immediate attention and discontinuation of medication are a sudden change in vision or loss in vision. There is currently thought to be no added risk of congenital anomalies to women who conceive on the medication as opposed to other therapies. Gonadotropins. Gonadotropins are frequently used to induce ovulation in women with PCOS for whom clomiphene treatment has failed. Low-dose therapy with gonadotropins offers a higher rate of ovulation, monofollicular development, with a significantly lower risk of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (156). When given in controlled situations with strict cancellation policies for excessive follicular development, gonadotropins lead to higher pregnancy rates than does clomiphene with similar multiple pregnancy rates.(157) This has led some to recommend this as a first-line therapy, although the expense and higher complication rates in untrained hands remain major treatment considerations. A low-dose regimen is the ASRM/ESHRE (158) and WHO consensus recommendation (131) when using gonadotropins in women with PCOS. In Vitro Fertilization. Women with PCOS who undergo IVF generally have a good prognosis for pregnancy and live birth compared to many other common indications for IVF. Data from the U.S. SART database suggest that women with PCOS have an increased chance for live birth compared to women with tubal disease.(159) Women with PCOS have a higher number of oocytes retrieved than women with tubal factor and live-birth rates were
