Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


treatment for subfertile women with anovulation and PCOS is undetermined (161), and it is primarily recommended as second-line infertility therapy. Neither drilling by laser or diathermy has any obvious advantage, and there is insufficient evidence to suggest a difference in ovulation or pregnancy rates when drilling is compared with gonadotropin therapy as a secondary treatment (161). Multiple pregnancy rates are reduced in those women who conceive following laparoscopic drilling. In some cases, the fertility benefits of ovarian drilling may be temporary and adjuvant therapy after drilling with clomiphene may be necessary (162). Ovarian drilling does not appear to improve metabolic abnormalities in women with PCOS (163). Long term follow up of a Dutch cohort who underwent either laparoscopic drilling or gonadotropin therapy showed higher fecundity rates with laparoscopic drilling.(164) and greater cost effectiveness of the surgery.(165) Ovarian drilling may also be used to restore menstrual cyclicity in women not seeking pregnancy, and there is evidence in some series of long term improvement in menses as a result of surgery (166). However, these series are uncontrolled and as noted above hyperandrogenism and oligomenorrhea tend to improve with age in women with PCOS regardless of any treatment. Metformin. The use of metformin as first-line solo infertility therapy has not been supported by randomized trials, although there are emerging data about its utility as an adjuvant agent. In the largest trial to date, clomiphene was roughly three times more effective at achieving live birth compared to metformin alone ( Figure 12 )(146). Meta-analysis of metformin studies in women with PCOS has not found a benefit in terms of live birth, but clinical pregnancy rates were improved for metformin versus placebo (pooled OR 2.31, 95% CI 1.52 to 3.51, 8 trials, 707 women).(167) Metformin combined with clomiphene may be the best combination in obese women with PCOS as noted in several randomized trials. (146,168) Metformin has no known human teratogenic risk or embryonic lethality in humans and appears safe in pregnancy. There is no solid evidence that metformin use early in pregnancy prevents pregnancy loss (169), and the randomized trials which stopped drug with pregnancy have shown similar miscarriage rates with metformin as with clomiphene (146,170). Similarly, the use of metformin throughout pregnancy in women with PCOS has not been associated with clear benefit beyond blunting gestational weight gain. (171) Surprisingly in this large multi-center trial, there was no prevention of gestational diabetes. In
