Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


women with PCOS has not been associated with clear benefit beyond blunting gestational weight gain. (171) Surprisingly in this large multi-center trial, there was no prevention of gestational diabetes. In other populations, metformin has been found to have similar effects as insulin for the treatment of gestational diabetes yet is better tolerated by patients (172) and does not result in change in birth weights when given to obese women who are pregnant(173). Metformin may be most useful in the long-term maintenance of PCOS. Metformin does lower serum androgen, increases ovulations, and improves menstrual frequency (174). While menstrual frequency is improved by roughly a third to a half from baseline, metformin does not always restore regular menstrual cycles in women with PCOS. There may also be favorable effects in preventing the progression to diabetes. The Diabetes Prevention Program demonstrated that metformin can prevent the development of diabetes in high-risk populations (e.g., those with impaired glucose tolerance) (175), and this result has been replicated for a number of anti-diabetic drugs in individuals at high risk. Metformin tends to be the drug of choice to treat glucose intolerance and elevated diabetes risk in women with PCOS because of its favorable safety profile and the familiarity a wide number of caregivers from varying specialties have with the medication. However, there are no adequately powered long term studies of metformin in women with PCOS to document diabetes prevention. Among women with PCOS who use metformin, glucose tolerance improves or stays steady over time (176). Metformin also may be associated with weight loss in women with PCOS, although the results in other populations are inconsistent (146,177). Metformin is often used in conjunction with lifestyle therapy to treat PCOS. Recent studies suggest that there is limited benefit to the addition of metformin above lifestyle therapy alone in PCOS (178-182). Metformin carries a small risk of lactic acidosis, most commonly among women with poorly controlled diabetes and impaired renal function. Gastrointestinal symptoms (diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, abdominal bloating, flatulence, and anorexia) are the most common adverse reactions and may be ameliorated by starting at a small dose and gradually increasing the dose or by using the extended-release version. The dose is usually 1500-2000 mg/day given in divided doses. The effects of metformin and other anti-diabetic drugs on preventing endometrial hyperplasia/neoplasia in women with PCOS are largely unknown. Thiazolidinediones, Smaller trials have shown some benefit to this class of drugs
