Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


effects of metformin and other anti-diabetic drugs on preventing endometrial hyperplasia/neoplasia in women with PCOS are largely unknown. Thiazolidinediones, Smaller trials have shown some benefit to this class of drugs for the treatment of infertility, usually in conjunction with clomiphene (183,184). However, the concern about hepatotoxicity, cardiovascular risk, weight gain, and reproductive toxicity in animal studies have limited the use of these drugs in women with PCOS. One of the thiazolidinediones, troglitazone, was removed from the market due to hepatotoxicity, and there has been increasing scrutiny of rosiglitazone because of increased cardiovascular events and of pioglitazone because of breast cancer. Nonetheless, improving insulin sensitivity with these drugs is associated with a decrease in circulating androgen levels, improved ovulation rate, and improved glucose tolerance (54,185-187). However, given the restrictions on their use in patients with type 2 diabetes, the risk-benefit ratio appears very unfavorable for women with PCOS. GLP-1 agonists. GLP-1 (Glucagon-Like Peptide) is an incretin secreted by the L cells of the intestine which increases pancreatic beta cell insulin production and insulin sensitivity. It also has CNS effects which lead to decreased appetite through a variety of mechanisms. GLP-1 agonists have been approved both for the treatment of type 2 diabetes and in higher doses (liraglutide) for the treatment of obesity in the U.S. These drugs thus offer a favorable dual treatment strategy for women with PCOS. Studies, however, have been limited, likely by two factors, the requirement for parenteral injection and the relative expense of the drugs compared to oral alternatives. Small observational studies do support that women with PCOS tend to lose weight and experience improvements in metabolic parameters related to insulin resistance. (188,189) Side effects of concern with this class of drugs include pancreatitis and an increased risk of thyroid cancer (medullary) and concerns about CNS interactions in patients with psychiatric disorders. Combination Oral Contraceptives. Oral contraceptives have been the mainstay of long-term management of PCOS among gynecologists even though there are few well designed trials in women with PCOS. They offer benefit through a variety of mechanisms, including suppression of pituitary LH secretion, suppression of ovarian androgen secretion, increased circulating SHBG levels (and thus decreased peripheral androgen exposure) as well as potential antagonism of steroidogenic enzymes or steroid receptors (most commonly the androgen receptor). Estrogen may be the most potent stimulator of SHBG production. Individual OC preparations may have different doses and drug combinations and thus
