Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


or steroid receptors (most commonly the androgen receptor). Estrogen may be the most potent stimulator of SHBG production. Individual OC preparations may have different doses and drug combinations and thus have varying risk–benefit ratios. For instance, various progestins have been shown to have different effects on circulating SHBG levels (190), but whether that translates into any clinical differences among preparations is uncertain. The “best” oral contraceptive for women with PCOS is unknown based on data, only on marketing hype. Oral contraceptives also are associated with a significant reduction in risk for endometrial cancer with a reduction of risk by 56% after four years of use and 67% after eight years in users compared to non-users (191), but the magnitude of the effect in women with PCOS is not known. Because women with PCOS may have multiple risk factors for adverse effects and serious adverse events on oral contraceptives, they must be screened carefully for risk factors for these events including smoking history, presence of obesity and hypertension, and history of clotting diathesis to mention some of the important factors ( Table 6 ). Studies based on insurance claims have suggested women with PCOS may have a higher risk of thromboembolic events on or off of OCP.(192) In the larger U.S. population, oral contraceptive use has not been associated with an increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes (193). There is no convincing evidence that use of oral contraceptives contributes to the risk of diabetes in women with PCOS, although there are often adverse effects on insulin sensitivity that may be dose dependent (194,195). Our own study showed a short-term (16 week) 25% deterioration in glucose tolerance on a low dose OCP compared to baseline in obese women with PCOS.(196) However, longer follow up studies are needed. A low dose oral contraceptive pill is therefore recommended. Concurrent lifestyle modification in obese women with PCOS may ameliorate the adverse metabolic effects of OCP.(196) Table 6 : Absolute and Relative Contraindications to Oral Contraceptive Use. Women with PCOS should be screened for these (common abnormalities in this group of women are underlined) and risk benefit ratios carefully discussed with them before initiating therapy. Absolute contraindications < 6 weeks postpartum if breastfeeding Smoker over the age of 35 (≥ 15 cigarettes per day) Hypertension (systolic ≥ 160mm Hg or diastolic ≥ 100mm Hg) Current or past history of venous thromboembolism (VTE) Ischemic heart disease
