Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


If a woman is taking an oral contraceptive that contains drospirenone (brand name Yasmin and Yaz), a progestin with anti-mineralocorticoid properties, it may be necessary to reduce her dose of spironolactone if used as additional therapy, and evaluate her levels of potassium. There have been several epidemiologic studies that have linked newer progestins, including drospirenone with an increased risk of thromboembolic events. However, these studies have been criticized for potential prescribing or detection bias. There is a theoretical benefit to treating hyperandrogenism with extended cycle formulations, as these are less likely to result in rebound ovarian function and more likely to lead to more consistently suppressed ovarian steroid levels, including androgens (201). However, there have been few studies to uphold this in practice, although these are increasingly utilized for other reasons, such as decreased vaginal bleeding and greater patient satisfaction. Progestins. Both depot and intermittent oral medroxyprogesterone acetate(MP) (10 mg for 10 days) have been shown to suppress pituitary gonadotropins and circulating androgens in women with PCOS (202). Depot MPA has been associated with weight gain, mood changes and breakthrough bleeding, but provides effective contraception if needed. No studies have addressed the long-term use of these compounds to treat hirsutism. The regimen of cyclic oral progestin therapy that most effectively prevents endometrial cancer in women with PCOS is unknown. There is also a paucity of data to address the varying risk-benefit ratios of varying classes of progestins. Progestin-only oral contraceptives are an alternative for endometrial protection, but they are associated with a high incidence of breakthrough bleeding. Cyproterone acetate is a progestin not available commercially in the U.S. with anti-androgenic properties. It is frequently combined in an oral contraceptive in other countries and is popular in the treatment of PCOS. A newer progestin from the same class, drospirenone, has been marketed in the U.S. as especially effective for the treatment of female hyperandrogenism, although the data suggesting this is superior to other formulations is not based on head-to-head randomized trials (203). Intrauterine Devices. There is increasing literature supporting the benefit of IUDs, especially a progestin (levonorgestrel) containing IUD, in treating a variety of endometrial disorders, including menorrhagia (204,205), simple endometrial hyperplasia (206) and complex hyperplasia(207). A recent meta-analysis, based on a small number of high quality studies, concluded that a levonorgestel containing IUD may be more effective than oral progestins in treating simple endometrial hyperplasia.(208) Levonorgestrel containing IUDs have also
