Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


a small number of high quality studies, concluded that a levonorgestel containing IUD may be more effective than oral progestins in treating simple endometrial hyperplasia.(208) Levonorgestrel containing IUDs have also been used to treat hyperplasia with atypia and even some local cases of endometrial adenocarcinoma in women desiring to preserve their uteruses for fertility.(209) Uterine Surgery. In patients with intractable uterine bleeding who have completed their child-bearing, consideration may be given to either endometrial ablation or more definitive surgical therapy via hysterectomy. The long-term risk of endometrial cancer developing in isolated pockets of endometrium after ablation remains a theoretical concern without clear data in this group of women at high risk for endometrial cancer. Statins. Another area where there is limited support in the literature for a cardiovascular and endocrine benefit in women with PCOS is with the use of statin(210). They have been shown to improve hyperandrogenemia, lipid levels, and reduce inflammation in women with PCOS (211,212). They have been studied in conjunction with both OCP and metformin with additive benefits noted.(213,214) However their long term effects in preventing cardiovascular disease in young women with PCOS is unknown, although a small but clinically significant preventive effect on CVD events was noted in a young population without dyslipidemia but with elevated C reactive protein levels.(215) There are theoretical concerns about teratogenicity with the use of this drug in reproductive aged women based primarily on its mechanism as a cholesterol synthesis inhibitor. The use of these drugs is still experimental in women with PCOS, and the comparative effects of varying statins in women with PCOS is unknown. Lifestyle Modification. The gold standard for improving insulin sensitivity in obese PCOS women should be weight loss, diet, and exercise. It is recommended as the first-line of treatment in obese women who present with infertility as discussed above. Obesity has become epidemic in our society and contributes substantially to reproductive and metabolic abnormalities in PCOS. Unfortunately, there are no effective treatments that result in permanent weight loss, and it is estimated that 90-95% of patients who experience a weight decrease will relapse. In markedly obese individuals, the only treatment that results in sustained and significant weight reduction is bariatric surgery (216). However, only a fraction of eligible patients ever elect or are qualified to receive bariatric surgery. In the U.S., it is estimated that only 1% of eligible patients receive bariatric surgery for the
