Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


fraction of eligible patients ever elect or are qualified to receive bariatric surgery. In the U.S., it is estimated that only 1% of eligible patients receive bariatric surgery for the treatment of obesity. There is no miracle diet in women with PCOS despite claims to the contrary. Hypocaloric diets result in appropriate weight loss in women with PCOS (arguing against any special defect towards weight retention). There is no clear evidence that any particular dietary composition benefits weight loss or reproductive or metabolic changes in women with PCOS (217,218), although “subtle differences” between diets were noted in a recent systematic review.(219) A two-year study in the general population found comparable weight loss among three types of diets of varying macronutrient composition and found comparable weight loss and similar improvement in lipid and insulin levels (220). Thus, the consensus recommendations for women with PCOS is to utilize any type of hypocaloric diet that they can tolerate and maintain (129,130). There have been unfortunately few studies on the effect of exercise alone on symptoms in PCOS women (221), although it is reasonable to assume that exercise would have the same beneficial effects in PCOS women as in women with type 2 DM. These benefits relate more to improved glycemic control and less to weight loss. In fact, exercise alone or in addition to caloric restriction adds only modestly to weight loss, in the range of 2-4% over a sustained period.(222) Exercise is thought to play a key role in weight maintenance after weight loss from caloric restriction.(223) However the exercise program must be tailored to the degree of obesity and the patient’s baseline fitness. Women with PCOS and morbid obesity may be poor candidates for weight bearing aerobic exercise due to musculoskeletal overload. Additionally, there may be medical contraindications to certain form of exercise. Bariatric Surgery. Bariatric surgery is increasingly used in morbidly obese patients as a first-line obesity therapy. The current National Institutes of Health recommendations are to utilize bariatric surgery in patients with a BMI greater than 40 or with a BMI greater than 35 and serious medical co-morbidities (224). PCOS has been listed as a co-morbidity justifying bariatric surgery by some experts. Some women with PCOS appear to experience a dramatic improvement in symptoms after surgery (225,226). However, these studies are primarily case series and need further validation in prospective studies. Randomized studies have documented that bariatric surgery is
