Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


a dramatic improvement in symptoms after surgery (225,226). However, these studies are primarily case series and need further validation in prospective studies. Randomized studies have documented that bariatric surgery is superior to medical treatment in controlling type II diabetes induced hyperglycemia, as well as providing a lower body weight and improved quality of life up to three years after surgery.(227) Weight loss may result in resumed ovulation and pregnancy during the period of rapid weight loss (first 6-12 months after surgery), which has led to concern about the effects of malnutrition on the fetus and general recommendations to refrain from pregnancy for 12-24 months. Data support that women who conceive after bariatric surgery are at increased risk for small-for-gestational-age babies and shorter pregnancies.(228) The ideal bariatric procedure for PCOS is unknown. Previously, it was thought that gastric banding was ideal, where the gastric band could be adjusted to accommodate larger caloric loads in case of pregnancy. However, there were long-term complications from band erosion. Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass (RYGB) was until recently the most commonly performed procedure and results in significantly more weight loss than gastric banding (“lap banding”). However, this procedure is now being overtaken by Vertical Sleeve Gastrectomy (VSG), which has lower operative and long-term morbidity due to the lack of bowel re-anastomosis that characterizes RYGB. VSG offers long term weight loss slightly less than RYGB.(229) Pharmacologic treatment of obesity. Because weight loss generally improves stigmata of PCOS, there have been a number of studies using medications for the treatment of obesity as primary treatments of PCOS. They appear in limited and small trials to offer some benefit (230-234). The current medications approved for the treatment of obesity in the U.S. and their risk/benefit ratio are summarized in Table 7 . It is important to note that one medication, sibutramine (a sympathomimetic central appetite suppressant) was removed recently from the U.S. market by the FDA because of concerns of increased CVD events with its use. Similarly, rimonabant (a cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonist central appetite suppressant) which was approved in Europe (but not in the U.S.) was removed from their market because of concerns about suicidal ideation and suicides on the drug. Currently there are insufficient data about the benefits of these drugs on signs and symptoms of PCOS to recommend them as a treatment for endocrine-related symptoms of PCOS, but they all have proven weight loss efficacy. Table 7
