Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


within 2 weeks following the administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors 3. Hyperthyroidism. 4. Glaucoma. 5. Agitated states. 6. History of drug abuse 1. Suicidal behavior and ideation 2. Acute myopia and secondary angle glaucoma 3. Metabolic acidosis 4. Elevation in creatinine 5. CNS depression with concomitant CNS depressants including alcohol 6. Potential seizures with abrupt withdrawal of drug 7. Patients with renal impairment 8. Kidney stones 9. Oligohidrosis and hyperthermia 10.Hypokalemia 1.mild dizziness 2.anxiety 3. fatigue or irritable 4. constipation 5. memory problems 6. poor sleep 7. numbness of tingly feeling 8. altered sense of taste 9.dry mouth Naltrexone/ Buproprion naltrexone, an opioid antagonist. bupropion, a relatively weak inhibitor of the neuronal reuptake of dopamine and norepinephrine Better 1. History of seizures 2. History of an eating disorder 3. Taking opioid pain medicines, 4. Taking medicines to stop opioid addiction, 5. taking an MAOI within 2 weeks. 6.Abrupt termination of alcohol, benzodiazepines, barbiturates, or antiepileptic drugs 1. Suicidal thoughts and behaviors 2. Neuropsychiatric reactions 1.nausea 2.headache 3.vomiting 4.constipation 5.diarrhea 6.dizziness 7. Poor 8. dry mouth Spironolactone. Spironolactone is primarily used to treat hirsutism and acne and appears effective, even though the evidence is limited (235). Spironolactone is a diuretic and aldosterone antagonist and also binds to the androgen receptor as an antagonist. It has other mechanisms of action, including inhibition of ovarian and adrenal steroidogenesis, competition for androgen receptors in hair follicles, and direct inhibition of 5a-reductase activity. The usual dose is 25–100 mg twice a day, and the dose is titrated to balance efficacy while avoiding side effects such as orthostatic hypotension. A full clinical effect may take 6 months or more. About 20% of women using spironolactone will experience increased menstrual frequency (236). Because it can cause and exacerbate hyperkalemia, spironolactone should be used cautiously in women with renal impairment. Because of its mechanism of action as an androgen receptor antagonist, it is contraindicated in women seeking or at risk for pregnancy due to potential teratogenic effects on the formation of male external genitalia. Rarely, however has exposure resulted in ambiguous genitalia in male infants. Concurrent use of an OCP with spironolactone will eliminate the risk of an unplanned pregnancy in compliant patients. Flutamide. Flutamide, an androgen-receptor agonist, is another nonsteroidal anti-androgen that has been shown to be effective against hirsutism in smaller trials The most common side effect is dry skin, but its use has been associated
