Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


is another nonsteroidal anti-androgen that has been shown to be effective against hirsutism in smaller trials The most common side effect is dry skin, but its use has been associated with hepatitis in rare cases. The common dosage is 250 mg/d. The risk of teratogenicity with this compound is significant, and contraception should be used. Flutamide has also been combined with lifestyle and metformin therapy for treatment of PCOS and may have additive effects (237). 5 a -reductase inhibitors. Finasteride inhibits two forms of the enzyme 5a-reductase, type 2 and 3 (type 1, predominantly found in the skin and scalp, and type 3, predominantly found in the prostate and reproductive tissues and type 3, widely expressed in adults). It is available as a 5-mg tablet for the treatment of prostate cancer and as a 1-mg tablet for the treatment of male alopecia. Finasteride is better tolerated than other anti-androgens, with minimal hepatic and renal toxicity; however, it has well-documented risk for teratogenicity in male fetuses, and adequate contraception should be used. Overall, randomized trials have found that spironolactone, flutamide and finasteride have similar efficacy in improving hirsutism (235). There are other newer and more comprehensive 5a-reductase inhibitors, including dutasteride that inhibits all isoforms of 5a-reductase, which have not been thoroughly studied for hirsutism or PCOS. Ornithine decarboxylase inhibitors. These have been developed for the treatment of female hirsutism. Ornithine decarboxylase is necessary for the production of polyamines and is also a sensitive and specific marker of androgen action in the prostate. Inhibition of this enzyme limits cell division and function in the pilosebaceous unit. Recently a potent inhibitor of this enzyme, eflornithine, has been found to be effective as a facial crème for the treatment of unwanted facial hair (238) (Brand name Vaniqa). It is available as a 13.9% crème of eflornithine hydrochloride and is applied to affected areas twice daily. In clinical trials, 32% of patients had marked improvement after 24 weeks compared to 8% of placebo-treated women, and the benefit was first noted at eight weeks. It is a pregnancy category C drug. It appears to be well tolerated, with only about 2% of patients developing skin irritation or other adverse reactions. Mechanical and cosmetic means of hair reduction and destruction. Mechanical hair removal (shaving, plucking, waxing, depilatory creams, electrolysis, and laser vaporization) can assist in controlling hirsutism, and often constitute the front-line of treatment used by women.
