Evaluation and Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
KEYWORDS: women, pcos, syndrome, polycystic, ovary, polycystic ovary, ovary syndrome, women pcos, clinical, journal, treatment, insulin, endocrinology, risk, metabolism


reduction and destruction. Mechanical hair removal (shaving, plucking, waxing, depilatory creams, electrolysis, and laser vaporization) can assist in controlling hirsutism, and often constitute the front-line of treatment used by women. Electrolysis (i.e., electroepilation) results in long-term hair destruction, albeit slowly. The main objective of laser therapy for hair removal is to selectively cause thermal damage of the hair follicle without destroying adjacent tissues, a process termed selective photothermolysis. In general, laser hair removal is most successful in patients with lighter skin who have dark colored hairs, although therapies are being developed for those with darker skin. However, repeated therapies are necessary, and complete and permanent hair removal is rarely achieved. After laser-assisted hair removal, most patients experience erythema and edema lasting no more than 48 hours. Blistering or crusting may occur in some patients, as well as some changes in skin pigmentation. Conclusion PCOS is a heterogeneous disorder with varying diagnostic criteria. The core criteria are hyperandrogenism, either clinical (i.e., hirsutism) or biochemical (i.e., elevated free testosterone or free androgen index), oligomenorrhea reflective of oligo-ovulation, and polycystic ovaries. The Rotterdam criteria are increasingly accepted as the core diagnostic criteria. Women with PCOS tend to be insulin resistant, obese, and at risk for diabetes and an adverse cardiovascular risk profile. Treatment tends to be symptom based, with focused treatments for infertility, obesity, hirsutism, etc. Few therapies address all signs and symptoms of the syndrome. It is hoped that a deeper understanding of the genetics and pathophysiology of the syndrome will lead to more specific therapies. REFERENCES Stein IF, Leventhal ML. Amenorrhea associated with polycystic ovaries. American journal of obstetrics and gynecology 1935; 29:181-191 Zawadski JK, Dunaif A. Diagnostic criteria for polycystic ovary syndrome; towards a rational approach. In: Dunaif A, Givens JR, Haseltine FP, Merriam GR, eds. Polycystic Ovary Syndrome. Boston: Blackwell Scientific; 1992:377-384. Adams J, Polson DW, Franks S. Prevalence of polycystic ovaries in women with anovulation and idiopathic hirsutism. British Medical Journal 1986; 293:355-359 Revised 2003 consensus on diagnostic criteria and long-term health risks related to polycystic ovary syndrome. Fertility and Sterility 2004; 81:19-25 group TREAsPcw. Revised 2003 consensus on diagnostic criteria and long-term health risks related to Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS). Hum Reprod 2004; 19:41-47 Balen AH, Laven JS, Tan SL, Dewailly D. Ultrasound assessment of the polycystic ovary: international consensus definitions. Human reproduction update 2003; 9:505-514 Dewailly D, Lujan ME, Carmina E, Cedars MI, Laven J, Norman
