RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: zikv, group, jev, antibodies, region, antibody, fig, mice, serum, control, ade, arrows, infection, using, mouse


Talents) Project lations and offer structural insights for designing flavivirus vaccines that maximize PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases | May 4, 2026 1 / 16 (No. 0720240122 to W.Z.), the National Natural protection while minimizing ADE risk. These findings further highlight potential Science Foundation of China (No. 82371846 to pathogenic and clinical considerations for optimizing vaccine formulations to reduce W.Z.), the Guangdong Science and Technology cross-reactive enhancement risks. Program key projects (No. 2021B1212030014 to W.Z.), the Guangzhou Basic Research Program (No. 2023A03J0810 to W.Z.), and the Guangdong Province Basic and Applied Basic Author summary Research Fund Project (No. 2024A1515010995 to W.Z.). The funders had no role in study Mosquito-borne flaviviruses such as Japanese encephalitis (JEV) and Zika design, data collection and analysis, decision to (ZIKV) viruses induce antibodies that recognize related viruses. We inves- publish, or preparation of the manuscript. tigated how antibodies produced after JEV vaccination might affect subse- Competing interests: The authors have quent ZIKV infection. Our study focused on the fusion loop (FL) region of declared that no competing interests exist. the envelope protein—a conserved segment present in both JEV and ZIKV. We found that this site was almost identical in both viruses. Laboratory find- ings showed that antibodies raised against the JEV FL region can also bind to ZIKV and exhibit concentration-dependent bidirectional effects. That is, high antibody levels block infection and protect the host, whereas low levels facilitate viral entry into cells and worsen disease. High antibody levels reduced viral load and inflammation, whereas low levels increased infec- tion and tissue damage in mice. Our findings highlight the delicate balance between beneficial and detrimental antibody responses and help to explain why past vaccination or infection can sometimes fail to protect against, or even exacerbate infection with a related virus. As JEV and ZIKV co- circulate in many endemic regions, this mechanism is relevant for under- standing real-world susceptibility. It also highlights the importance of evaluating vaccine-induced antibody profiles to ensure flavivirus vaccines are both safe and effective. Introduction Zika virus (ZIKV) is a single-stranded, positive-sense RNA virus transmitted by Aedes mosquitoes. Zika virus belongs to the Flaviviridae family and is closely related to den- gue virus (DENV), Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV), and yellow fever virus (YFV) . Since its initial discovery in the Zika Forest of Uganda in 1947, ZIKV has caused outbreaks in Africa, Asia, the Americas and Oceania . The first large-scale out- break
