RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: zikv, group, jev, antibodies, region, antibody, fig, mice, serum, control, ade, arrows, infection, using, mouse


. Since its initial discovery in the Zika Forest of Uganda in 1947, ZIKV has caused outbreaks in Africa, Asia, the Americas and Oceania . The first large-scale out- break occurred on Yap Island in 2007, followed by widespread transmission across the Americas in 2015. The World Health Organization declared ZIKV a “Public Health Emergency of International Concern” during 2016 . By 2019, ZIKV transmission had spread over 80 countries and regions worldwide highlighting its persistent global ing the need for continued surveillance . The ZIKV genome is ~ 11 kb in length and encodes a single polyprotein that is processed into the structural capsid protein, pre-membrane glycoprotein, and gly- cosylated E protein, and seven non-structural proteins (NS1, NS2A, NS2B, NS3, NS4A, NS4B, and NS5) . Among these, the envelope (E) protein is instrumental PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases | May 4, 2026 2 / 16 in mediating viral entry and inducing immune responses, serving as the primary target of most antibody responses . The E protein is highly conserved among flaviviruses, and the fusion loop region (residues 98–110) within domain II (EDII) represents a structurally conserved segment. The FL region is an important structural element of the E protein, critical for viral membrane fusion and potentially mediating cross-reactive antibody responses . Although considerable research has focused on cross-reactive antibodies targeting DII, the FL region has also been identified as a highly conserved seg- ment whose functional role in protective immunity and pathogenesis remains to be fully elucidated . Within the flavivirus immune response, this FL region represents a structurally conserved segment within EDII of the E protein. It can mediate neutralization and exacerbate infection through antibody-dependent enhancement (ADE) via the fragment crystallizable gamma receptor (FcγR) pathway . Epidemiological studies have reported increased disease severity in secondary DENV infections , consistent with the ADE observed in vitro, highlighting the potential relevance of cross-reactive flavivirus antibodies in human populations . Structural modification or reduced exposure of the FL region in the ZIKV envelope protein significantly decreases ADE during dengue virus infection, suggesting that cross-reactive antibodies predominantly target this conserved region . Furthermore, antibodies targeting the FL region are generally weakly neutralizing but have been reported to confer partial protection in vivo . These observations highlight the dual functional nature of FL-directed flavivirus antibodies. Serological studies have revealed 56.1% sequence homology in the E proteins between JEV and ZIKV . Although this suggests
