RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: zikv, group, jev, antibodies, region, antibody, fig, mice, serum, control, ade, arrows, infection, using, mouse


These observations highlight the dual functional nature of FL-directed flavivirus antibodies. Serological studies have revealed 56.1% sequence homology in the E proteins between JEV and ZIKV . Although this suggests that shared regions, such as the FL region, are involved in immune interactions, the conclusions remain tentative. Considering the widespread application of JEV vaccines worldwide, the possibility that antibodies induced by JEV vaccination targeting the FL region may enhance ZIKV infection under certain conditions has significant public health implications. Although antibodies generated after JEV vaccination or infection have some cross-binding capacity against ZIKV , the functional outcomes of antibodies tar- geting the JEV FL region during ZIKV infection, including neutralization and ADE, remain incompletely understood and are likely context-dependent . Therefore, the functional effects of antibodies induced by JEV vaccination or infection that target the FL region on ZIKV infection warrant systematic investigation. This would help to elucidate cross-immunity mech- anisms within the Flavivirus genus and holds practical significance for assessing potential risks in vaccinated populations, optimizing vaccine design, and developing new antibody therapy strategies. Accordingly, we focused on the FL region of the JEV E protein. We generated mouse polyclonal antibodies (pAbs) and systematically evaluated their effects on ZIKV infection in vitro and in vivo. We elucidated the immunological role of anti- bodies recognizing the FL region in cross-flavivirus interactions and provided mechanistic insights for vaccine optimization and antibody-based interventions by assessing concentration-dependent neutralization and enhancement. Results Conservation and antigenicity of the fusion loop region in JEV and ZIKV We systematically analyzed E proteins using a bioinformatic approach to determine the potential of JEV and ZIKV cross-reactivity. Sequence alignment revealed that the core region of the FL is 100% identical between JEV and ZIKV (residues 98–110; Fig 1A), providing a fundamental molecular basis for potential cross-reactive antibody recognition. We then examined the structural conservation of this region via tertiary structure superposition, which revealed overlapping FL regions of the two viruses in three-dimensional space, with a Cα root-mean-square deviation (RMSD) of only 0.247 Å (Fig 1B). These findings indicated almost identical spatial conformations. However, sequence and structural conserva- tion alone are insufficient to predict cross-reactivity. We analyzed the surface electrostatic potential of the FL to further explore the mechanistic basis of antibody binding. The results showed that the epitope in ZIKV presents a positively charged surface, whereas the corresponding region in JEV is electrostatically neutral (Fig 1C). This difference suggested
