RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: zikv, group, jev, antibodies, region, antibody, fig, mice, serum, control, ade, arrows, infection, using, mouse


of antibody binding. The results showed that the epitope in ZIKV presents a positively charged surface, whereas the corresponding region in JEV is electrostatically neutral (Fig 1C). This difference suggested that antibodies are preferentially attracted to and bind the positively charged ZIKV surface, providing a structural and physicochemical explanation for the stronger predicted antigenicity of the ZIKV FL. We also evaluated the immunogenic potential of the FL in each viral context by linear B-cell epitope prediction. While we predicted that the FL of both viruses PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases | May 4, 2026 3 / 16 Fig 1. Comparative analysis of the fusion loop region in JEV and ZIKV E proteins. (A) Sequence alignment of the FL region core region, showing complete conservation between JEV and ZIKV. Colors indicate amino acid types. (B) Tertiary structure superposition of the FL region, with a Cα RMSD of 0.247 Å, indicating high structural similarity. Orange/red: ZIKV protein/FP loop; purple/blue: JEV protein/FP loop. (C) Surface electrostatic potential of the FL region. ZIKV exhibits a positively charged surface (blue), while JEV is neutral (white). Color scale: blue, positive; white, neutral; red, negative. (D) Linear B-cell epitope prediction. ZIKV FL region forms a strong epitope of seven residues (98–104), whereas JEV comprises five residues (98–102), indicating stronger predicted antigenicity in ZIKV(* indicates > 0.01512). was immunoreactive, the signal strength differed. The FL region in ZIKV spans seven consecutive residues (98–104) with BepiPred-3.0 scores exceeding 0.01512, whereas that in JEV comprises five consecutive residues (98–102) exceeding the same threshold (Fig 1D). These results indicate that the FL region may be more immunodominant in ZIKV than in JEV. Cross-reactivity and concentration-dependent functional effect of antibodies against the JEV fusion loop region with ZIKV We validated the bioinformatic predictions and assessed functional consequences using mouse immunization and in vitro assays (Fig 2A). Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA) revealed that immunized mouse sera reached a titer of 10⁵ against the JEV FL peptide, confirming successful immunization (Fig 2B).We then evaluated the cross-reactivity of these sera with ZIKV virions, and determined that five JEV FL-positive sera bound to ZIKV with significantly higher affinity compared with those of negative controls (p < 0.0001; Fig 2C). Antibody titers showed a positive correlation trend with ZIKV binding (Pearson r = 0.8171; Fig 2D), confirming cross-reactive recognition. We then examined the functional effects of these antibodies on ZIKV infection, and analyzed K562 cells, which are used
