RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: zikv, group, jev, antibodies, region, antibody, fig, mice, serum, control, ade, arrows, infection, using, mouse


significantly reduced in Vero cells incubated with JEV FL-positive sera (Fig 2G). Dual role of FL antibodies in ZIKV infection confirmed in vivo We established a passive immunization mouse model to validate the dual effects of anti-JEV FL antibodies on ZIKV infec- tion in vivo (Fig 3A). Six- to nine-week-old double-knockout mice on a C57BL/6 background were used in this study. The mice were originally generated by and purchased from Shanghai Model Organisms Center, Inc. (Shanghai, China), and were subsequently bred and maintained under specific pathogen-free (SPF) conditions at Cyagen Biosciences (Suzhou, China). High-, medium-, and low-dose groups (n = 12 each) received 23, 25, and 27 dilutions of pAbs, respectively. Based on in vitro neutralization and ADE assays, which showed maximal neutralizing effects at antibody dilutions of 21–23 and ADE effects at lower concentrations—we selected three representative dilutions for in vivo evaluation: 23 (high dose), 25(medium dose), and 27 (low dose), to capture both protective and potentiating effects. The mice were challenged 24 h later with 10³ plaque-forming units (PFU) of ZIKV injected intraperitoneally (i.p.). Mice with negative serum and virus-only served as controls. The antibodies exhibited a dose-dependent biphasic effect (Fig 3B). The high-dose group showed infection course, with significant differences observed from post-infection day (PID) 9 onward (p < 0.001 vs PBS con- trol) and minimal body weight loss. These results indicated that a weak neutralizing protective effect mitigated disease progression. In contrast, the low-dose group exhibited typical ADE, namely a steep decline in survival (life extension rate, dramatic body weight loss, and severe neurological symptoms of limb and systemic paralysis, ultimately leading to death (Fig 3C–3E). These results indicated that low-dose antibodies did not confer protection, significantly exacer- bated pathological damage, and accelerated mortality. The group with the medium dose responded with intermediate responses in some parameters, but survival and weight changes were closer to those in the low-dose group, with limited protection. To further assess the impact of anti-JEV FL antibodies on ZIKV replication, we assessed viral RNA levels in blood at several time points after infection. At PID 5, the low-dose group had significantly higher viral RNA levels than the virus-only control, indicating ADE; thus, low-dose antibodies were not protective, confirming the concentration-dependent effects of antibodies (Fig 3F). Analysis of inflammatory responses further revealed the immu- nopathological mechanisms of ADE. At PID 3, levels of the pro-inflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF- α)
