RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: zikv, group, jev, antibodies, region, antibody, fig, mice, serum, control, ade, arrows, infection, using, mouse


of antibodies (Fig 3F). Analysis of inflammatory responses further revealed the immu- nopathological mechanisms of ADE. At PID 3, levels of the pro-inflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF- α) were significantly elevated in the low-dose (63.44 ± 13.97 pg/mL) and medium-dose (54.10 ± 7.86 pg/mL) groups compared to that of the PBS virus control (47.99 ± 9.33 pg/mL), with the increase being the greatest in the low-dose group. By PID 5, levels of the key inflammatory cytokine interleukin (IL)-6 remained significantly higher in the low-dose group (31.64 ± 6.69 pg/mL) than in the PBS virus control group (19.15 ± 1.09 pg/mL; Fig 3G). This indicated that ADE induced a pronounced and sustained systemic inflammatory response that probably contributed to exacerbated pathol- ogy and accelerated mortality. Histopathological analysis We collected brain, liver, kidney, and spleen tissues from the mice in all groups for histopathological examination before death. Spleen tissues did not significantly differ among the groups (S1 Fig), whereas pathological changes were distinct in the brain, liver, and kidneys (Fig 4A). Histopathological analysis of the brain revealed nuclear pyknosis of pyramidal neurons in the CA3 region in all groups (yellow arrows). This was characterized by reduced cellular volume, irregular nuclear morphology, indistinct nucleocy- toplasmic boundaries, and increased staining intensity. Such changes were sporadic in the low-dose group and were accompanied by focal hemorrhage in the dentate gyrus (DG) region (red arrows) and perivascular edema (black arrows). PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases | May 4, 2026 6 / 16 Fig 3. Concentration-dependent protective and ADE effects of anti-JEV FL antibodies in vivo. The C57BL/6 mouse image was obtained from Wikimedia Commons ( and is licensed under CCBY 4.0. The syringe image was PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases | May 4, 2026 7 / 16 sourced from SciDraw ( and is also licensed under CCBY 4.0. The mouse symptom photograph was taken by the authors. (A) Schematic of the passive immunization and ZIKV challenge experimental design.(B) Clinical symptoms on day 8 post-infection in each group.(C) Kaplan–Meier survival curves of mice.(D) Body weight changes over the course of infection.(E) Clinical disease scores of infected mice.(F) Viral loads in blood at different time points post-infection, measured by qRT-PCR. Statistical significance at dpi 5 compared with virus-only controls was determined by t-test.(G) Serum TNF-α concentrations in each group.(H) Serum IL-6 concentrations in each group. Data were analyzed using two independent-sample t-tests;ns, not significant; *p < 0.05, **p
