RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: zikv, group, jev, antibodies, region, antibody, fig, mice, serum, control, ade, arrows, infection, using, mouse


control (Fig 4C). In contrast, the PBS and negative control groups displayed only mild lesions. Although the high-dose group had multifocal steatosis, its hepatic plates remained relatively well organized and sinusoidal structures were preserved. The structural characteristics of the PBS and negative-serum groups were similar, with rounded hepato- cytes, orderly hepatic plates, and mild vascular congestion (green arrows). No histopathological abnormalities were found in the blank control group. Histopathological analysis of kidney tissues revealed extensive pathological changes in the low-dose group, including tubular epithelial cell edema (black arrows), vacuolar degeneration (yellow arrows), and occasional tubular dilation (green arrows). The medium-dose group had mild glomerular capillary dilation and congestion (red arrows), along with more dose group showed significant lesions (score > 3), whereas lesions in the other groups were mild. The pathological scores PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases | May 4, 2026 8 / 16 Fig 4. Histopathological alterations and semi-quantitative lesion scoring of major organs in mice. (A) Representative H&E-stained sections of brain, liver, and kidney tissues (the black box indicates the magnified field of view).Brain (hippocampal region): black arrows indicate perivascular edema; yellow arrows indicate pyramidal neuron nuclear shrinkage; red arrows indicate focal hemorrhage in the DG region; green arrows indicate nuclear shrinkage of granular cells in the DG region.Liver: black arrows indicate hepatocellular steatosis; green arrows indicate vascular congestion.Kid- ney: black arrows indicate tubular epithelial swelling; yellow arrows indicate vacuolar degeneration; red/white arrows indicate glomerular lesions; green arrows indicate tubular dilation; brown arrows indicate interstitial congestion; blue arrows indicate inflammatory (lymphocytic) infiltration. (B) Semi- quantitative composite pathological score of brain lesions. (C) Semi-quantitative composite pathological score of liver lesions. (D) Semi-quantitative composite pathological score of kidney lesions.Pathological grading was performed according to the INHAND (International Harmonization of Nomen- clature and Diagnostic Criteria for Lesions in Rats and Mice) four-tier scoring system. Data were analyzed using two independent-sample t-tests; ns, not significant; *p < 0.05, **p < 0.01, ***p < 0.001. were higher for the low- and mid-dose groups compared with the PBS control, with changes being more pronounced in the low-dose group (Fig 4D). The high-dose group exhibited largely normal tubular epithelial morphology, with sporadic lymphocytic infiltration (blue arrows) and vascular congestion (orange arrows) within the interstitium. The PBS group had PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases | May 4, 2026 9 / 16 irregular renal morphology, characterized by glomerular hypercellularity (white arrows) and interstitial vascular conges- tion. The negative-serum group
