RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: zikv, group, jev, antibodies, region, antibody, fig, mice, serum, control, ade, arrows, infection, using, mouse


5 per group; provided by the Animal zation or negative control (adjuvant only) group. Immunization was performed via intramuscular injection of the peptide emulsified in Freund’s adjuvant. The initial immunization used complete Freund’s adjuvant, followed by two booster immu- nizations at weeks 2 and 4 using incomplete Freund’s adjuvant . Seven days after the final booster, whole blood was collected via orbital puncture, then serum was separated and stored at –80 °C. Antibody titers and antigen specificity were determined using ELISA, and sera with high antibody titers were selected and pooled for subsequent in vivo and in vitro experiments. PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases | May 4, 2026 11 / 16 Viruses and cells USA) for cross-reactivity assays, neutralization tests, and ADE studies. Vero (ATCC CCL-81) and K562 (ATCC CCL-243) cells were cultured in Dulbecco’s modified Eagle (DMEM) and RPMI-1640 media, respectively, supple- mented with 10% heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum (Sigma-Aldrich, MO, USA). All cells were maintained at 37°C in a humidified incubator under a 5% CO₂ atmosphere. Bioinformatics analysis Amino acid sequences and three-dimensional structures of the E proteins of JEV (strain SA-14; PDB: 5MV1) and ZIKV (strain Z16006; PDB: 5JHM) were retrieved from the RCSB Protein Data Bank. Multiple sequence alignments were gen- erated using the ESPript 3.0 online tool. Structural superimposition of the two viral E proteins was conducted in PyMOL, with the FL regions highlighted for visualization. In this study, the fusion loop region (residues 98–110) within domain II was defined as the structural region of interest, and antibodies described herein refer to those targeting this region rather than a single discrete epitope. Electrostatic surface potential maps of the E protein surfaces were generated using the APBS Electrostatics plugin in PyMOL. B-cell linear epitopes were predicted using the BepiPred-3.0 online server with default parameters. ELISA antibody titration and cross-reactivity assay ZIKV antigen (10³ PFU/well) and synthetic peptides (50 μg/well) were diluted in coating buffer (0.1 M sodium carbonate– bicarbonate, pH 9.4), added to 96-well plates (100 μL/well), and incubated overnight at 4 °C. After the plates were washed three times with PBS containing 0.1% Tween-20, non-specific protein binding was prevented by incubation with 5% skim milk blocking buffer (300 μL/well) for 4 h at room temperature. Heat-inactivated mouse serum was initially diluted 1:1000 in PBS, then serially diluted two-fold. Aliquots (100 μL/well) of each dilution were added to the coated plates. FL peptides -positive serum, FL peptides
