RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: zikv, group, jev, antibodies, region, antibody, fig, mice, serum, control, ade, arrows, infection, using, mouse


mouse serum was initially diluted 1:1000 in PBS, then serially diluted two-fold. Aliquots (100 μL/well) of each dilution were added to the coated plates. FL peptides -positive serum, FL peptides -negative serum, and PBS were used as positive, negative, and blank controls, respectively. After incubation for 1.5 h followed by washing, the plates were incubated with horseradish peroxidase-conjugated Affini- pure goat anti-mouse IgG (H + L) secondary antibody (1:5000; Cat# SA00001–1, Proteintech, Rosemont, IL, USA) for 1 h at 37 °C. Signals were developed using p-phenylenediamine dihydrochloride substrate, stopped with sulfuric acid, and optical density was measured at 450 nm using a microplate reader .The area under the curve (AUC) was calculated using GraphPad Prism to quantify the overall binding response across the dilution series, with a higher AUC suggesting stronger overall cross-reactive binding. ADE assay with fusion loop immunized mouse serum Mouse anti-JEV FL pAbs serum, derived from an equal-volume pool of high-titer sera from immunized BALB/c mice as determined by ELISA, was serially diluted two-fold in RPMI-1640 medium and incubated with equal volumes of ZIKV at 37 °C for 1 h. The antibody-virus mixtures were added to K562 cells (MOI = 0.5) and incubated for 2 h. The cells were then cultured in maintenance medium and incubated for 2 d under standard conditions. Total RNA was extracted and viral RNA levels were quantified by qRT-PCR targeting the ZIKV NS5 region (forward: 5′-GGCRTTRGCCATCAGTCG-3′; reverse: 5′-ATGGAGCATCCGKGAGACT-3′). GAPDH was used as the internal reference (forward: 5′-CATCCTGGGCT ACACTGAGC-3′; reverse: 5′-AAAGTGGTCGTTGAGGGCAA-3′) . Relative viral RNA levels were calculated using the ΔΔCT method, and fold-change values are expressed as 2⁻ΔΔCT . PRNT performed with mouse serum raised against the JEV fusion loop region Anti-JEV FL mouse pAbs were serially diluted two-fold in DMEM, mixed with an equal volume of ZIKV (MOI = 0.5), and incubated for 1 h at 37 °C. The antibody-virus mixtures were then added to Vero cell monolayers in 24-well plates and PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases | May 4, 2026 12 / 16 incubated for 2 h at 37 °C. As a negative control, serum pooled from adjuvant-immunized mice (without peptide antigen) was used. After removing the inoculum, the cells were overlaid with 1.2% methylcellulose in maintenance medium to allow plaque formation. Following 5–7 d of incubation, the plates were fixed and stained with crystal violet for plaque visualization and counting. The percentage of plaque reduction was calculated using the following
