RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: zikv, group, jev, antibodies, region, antibody, fig, mice, serum, control, ade, arrows, infection, using, mouse


formation. Following 5–7 d of incubation, the plates were fixed and stained with crystal violet for plaque visualization and counting. The percentage of plaque reduction was calculated using the following formula: Percentage plaque reduction = (Number of plaques in control wells − Number of plaques in treated wells)/Number of plaques in control wells × 100% . ZIKV challenge in interferon-deficient mice with anti-FL serum Heat-inactivated anti-JEV FL mouse serum was serially diluted in PBS. A susceptible mouse model, comprising 6–9-week-old Ifnar1−/−Ifngr1−/− C57BL/6 mice (n = 12 per group), received 200 µL of the pooled diluted serum via i.p. injection. The mice were originally obtained from Shanghai Model Organisms Center, Inc. and were bred and maintained under SPF conditions at Cyagen Biosciences. Twenty-four hours later, the mice were challenged i.p. with 104PFU of ZIKV, followed by administration of high-, medium-, or low-dose FL serum diluted to 23, 25, and 27, respec- tively. The control groups consisted of mice injected with serum from adjuvant-immunized mice (without antigen) and signs were scored as follows: 0, no obvious symptoms; 1, hunching and piloerection; 2, tremor and reduced activity; 3, motor impairment without paralysis; 4, single-limb paralysis; 5, double-limb paralysis; 6, triple-limb paralysis; 7, full paralysis; and 8, death. Survival was quantified using the Life Extension Rate, which was calculated for each group as follows: Life Extension Rate = [(Average Days in the Pre-Stored Antibody Dose Group - Average Days in the Virus Control Group)/ Average Days in the Virus Control Group] × 100%. Viral burden in serum was assessed by qRT-PCR targeting the ZIKV NS5 gene . ELISA detection of serum TNF-α and IL-6 Whole blood was collected by retro-orbital puncture and centrifuged to obtain serum samples that were diluted 1:10 and 1:5 with IL-6 and TNF-α with sample diluent (100 µL per well). Cytokines were quantified using mouse TNF-α and IL-6 ELISA kits (EMC102a.96 and EMC004.96, respectively; China Xinbosheng Biotechnology Co., Ltd., Shenzhen, China) as described by the manufacturer. Histopathological analysis Brains, livers, kidneys, and spleens were collected at PID 8 from each group (n = 3) and fixed in 10% neutral-buffered formalin at 4 °C for 48 h . The tissues were trimmed, dehydrated, embedded in paraffin, sectioned, and stained with hematoxylin and eosin according to the standard pathological testing procedures of Shinanke Biotechnology Ltd. The groups included: (i) CON, representing healthy mice with normal development; (ii) PBS control, receiving virus only;
