Reviews in Medical Virology
KEYWORDS: ebv, cancer, suoires, ton, virus, epstein, barr, suoires ton, epstein barr, barr virus, studies, study, infection, sey, ton suoires


- REVIEW OPEN ACCESS Beyond the Usual Suspects: Emerging Associations Between Epstein‐Barr Virus Infection/Infectious Mononucleosis and Cancers Marisa D. Muckian1 | Graham S. Taylor2 | John Diaz‐Decaro3 | Enejda Senko3 | Helen R. Stagg1 1London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, London, UK |2University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK |3ModernaTX Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA Correspondence: Helen R. Stagg () Received: 19 December 2025 | Revised: 31 March 2026 | Accepted: 6 April 2026 Keywords: cancer |epstein‐barr virus|glandular fever|infectious mononucleosis ABSTRACT Epstein‐Barr virus (EBV) is a ubiquitous herpesvirus and a causal factor for Burkitt Lymphoma (BL), Hodgkin Lymphoma (HL), gastric carcinoma (GC) and nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC). Whether EBV contributes to a wider spectrum of cancers re- mains uncertain. We reviewed MEDLINE, Embase and Web of Science on 30th July 2024 to identify observational studies that examined the association between EBV infection or EBV‐infectious mononucleosis (IM) and cancers beyond BL, HL, GC and NPC. Evidence was appraised using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) framework. For cancers meeting minimum thresholds we assessed etiologic fractions (EFs), biological plausibility, epidemio- logical burden, latency after IM, and predictive biomarkers. Thirty‐three eligible studies were identified, yielding 13 hypotheses (i.e., specific potential reported associations between EBV infection or IM and individual cancer types) that advanced through GRADE. Breast cancer and NHL had the greatest weight of biological plausibility, cervical and prostate the least. Despite an array of tests, testicular cancer studies provided limited evidence. EFs ranged between 12.3% (IM‐breast) and 85.1% (EBV infection‐NHL). Breast and prostate cancers had the highest global incidence. Only one study (for NHL) provided data on time from IM to cancer onset, and prostate‐specific antigen was the only biomarker identified. In this review, we highlight eight cancers across six cancer groups (breast, cervical, leukaemia/other haematologic, NHL, prostate, testicular) with some evidence of EBV involvement. These results reinforce the potential long‐term value of EBV vaccine development, while emphasising the need for high‐quality prospective studies with robust methods of viral detection to establish causality. Abbreviations: ALL, acute lymphoblastic leukaemia; AML, acute myeloid leukaemia; ASIR, age standardised incidence rate; AUC, area under the curve; BALF5, BamHI‐A fragment containing the fifth leftward open reading frame; BamHI, a restriction enzyme derived from Bacillus amyloliquefaciens H; BHLF, BamHI H fragment leftward open reading frame; BHRF, BamHI H fragment Practice Research Datalink; DCIS, ductal carcinoma in situ; DLBCL, diffuse large B‐cell lymphoma; EA, early antigen; EBER, Epstein‐Barr Virus‐Encoded
