Reviews in Medical Virology
KEYWORDS: ebv, cancer, suoires, ton, virus, epstein, barr, suoires ton, epstein barr, barr virus, studies, study, infection, sey, ton suoires


partly be through EBV‐infectious July 2024, using terms related to EBV infection, infectious mononucleosis (EBV‐IM), which typically occurs in adoles- mononucleosis (IM), and malignancy (Appendix 1). Eligible cence and young adulthood . studies were defined using a population–exposure–outcome (PEO) framework (Table 1), with detailed inclusion and exclu- Recent innovations in vaccine technologies and a contemporary sion criteria provided in Table 2. We did not require IM to be study strongly implicating EBV in the development of multiple explicitly confirmed as EBV‐related, given that EBV accounts sclerosis (MS) has reignited the search for an EBV vaccine. for the majority of IM . In this paper, we thus refer to IM Equally, the potential for a vaccine that either prevents EBV rather than EBV‐IM where the former term is more appropriate. infection or EBV‐associated sequelae has stimulated interest in which other conditions such a vaccine could prevent. In this review, we systematically examined evidence for asso- 2.1.2 | Screening and Data Extraction ciations between EBV infection or EBV‐IM and malignancies beyond BL, HL, GC, and NPC. We appraised the strength of After deduplication in EndNote, records were managed using evidence using the GRADE framework, estimated etiologic and Rayyan . Title/abstract and full text screening were per- population attributable fractions (EFs/PAFs) where possible, formed by one reviewer (MDM), with a plan to assess foreign and explored biological plausibility through molecular detection language articles in collaboration with fluent speakers. For studies. We also characterised the global and country‐specific studies reporting on multiple cancer outcomes, all relevant data burden of these cancers, examined the timing between EBV‐ were extracted. IM and cancer onset, and reviewed available biomarkers that might inform early detection or risk stratification. In addition to the criteria listed in Table 2, we also excluded pa- pers/data for lymphomas where lymphoma subtype was not re- ported due to concerns about inclusion of HL. However, studies that included B‐cell lymphomas were retained, even if some cases 2 | Methods involved BL, as BL itself is rare in most countries and these studies often reported on other non‐Hodgkin lymphomas (NHLs) that To explore the potential role of EBV infection or EBV‐IM in were of interest to our analysis. Data extraction was performed in cancers beyond BL, HL, GC, and NPC, we adopted a staged duplicate (MDM, HRS) using a predefined template, with dis- approach. We began with a literature review, accompanied by a agreements resolved
