Reviews in Medical Virology
KEYWORDS: ebv, cancer, suoires, ton, virus, epstein, barr, suoires ton, epstein barr, barr virus, studies, study, infection, sey, ton suoires


BL, HL, GC, and NPC, we adopted a staged duplicate (MDM, HRS) using a predefined template, with dis- approach. We began with a literature review, accompanied by a agreements resolved by consensus. There were no foreign lan- quality assessment, to identify studies reporting associations be- guage papers eligible for data extraction. tween EBV infection or EBV‐IM and malignancies outside the four established EBV‐related cancers. From these studies, we extracted hypotheses, that is specific potential reported associa- tions between EBV infection or EBV‐IM and individual cancer TABLE 1 | PEO framework definitions. types and appraised their strength using the Grading of Recom- PEO mendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) framework framework . Only hypotheses that achieved at least a low level item Definition for the review of certainty (the highest rating possible for observational evi- dence) were advanced to subsequent stages. Population Human populations globally, with no restrictions on age, sex, or geography. For the hypotheses that were advanced, we conducted targeted Exposure Evidence of EBV infection (serology or searches of the molecular evidence to assess biological plausibil- DNA detection) or a recorded history ity. We also examined the global and country‐specific burden of of IM. disease using GLOBOCAN and the Global Burden of Disease Outcome Any cancer diagnosis other than the four (GBD) Study (IHME) data. From the original literature review, well‐established EBV‐associated cancers we extracted information on latency periods between EBV‐IM (BL, HL, NPC, GC). and cancer onset, where available. We also calculated PAFs and EFs using effect estimates reported in eligible studies. Finally, we Note: Population, exposure and outcome (PEO) framework used for the review. Abbreviations: BL, Burkitt lymphoma; EBV, Epstein‐Barr virus; GC, gastric performed targeted searches for biomarkers that might predict carcinoma; HL, Hodgkin lymphoma; IM, infectious mononucleosis; NPC, the development of EBV‐associated malignancies before clinical nasopharyngeal carcinoma. 2 of 30 Reviews in Medical Virology, 2026 2.1.3 | Quality Assessment control studies). The guidance of Deeks et al. was used for the adaptation, which included additional questions around the Study quality was assessed using an adapted version of the appropriateness of the statistical methods used. Application of Newcastle‐Ottawa tool , which assesses the quality of non‐ the tool was done in duplicate by MDM and HRS and dis- randomised studies (Table 3‐ cohort studies and Table 4‐ case agreements were resolved by consensus. TABLE 2 | Inclusion and exclusion criteria for screening. Inclusion Exclusion Language Studies in
