Reviews in Medical Virology
KEYWORDS: ebv, cancer, suoires, ton, virus, epstein, barr, suoires ton, epstein barr, barr virus, studies, study, infection, sey, ton suoires


judgement calls were made as to whether the degree of losses appeared to be below the threshold Appropriate statistical methods (1) Statistical method applied was appropriate for the hypothesis and study design Control of confounding (1) Analysis accounted for confounding (age, sex) Note: Criteria outlined by the Newcastle‐Ottawa quality assessment tool. Modifications were made according to the recommendations by Deeks et al. and thus the criteria include two additional questions assessing the appropriateness of the statistical methods and controlling for confounding. Abbreviations: EBV, Epstein‐Barr virus; IM, infectious mononucleosis. Reviews in Medical Virology, 2026 3 of 30 TABLE 4 | Modified Newcastle‐Ottawa quality assessment criteria for case‐control studies. Newcastle‐Ottawa criteria (maximum score) Interpretation (basis for score) Selection of controls (1) Community controls Definition of controls (1) Confirmation no cancer at baseline Comparability of cases and controls (2) Cases and controls were balanced by age and sex +1 Cases and controls were also balanced by additional factors +2 Ascertainment of exposure (1) Exposure measured using serology or taken from medical records Same method for cases and controls (1) Same method of exposure ascertainment was used for cases and controls Non‐response rate (1) Similar proportion of cases and controls did not agree to be part of the study Appropriate statistical methods (1) Statistical method applied appropriate for the hypothesis and study design Control of confounding (1) Analysis accounted for confounding (age, sex) Simultaneous ascertainment of exposure and If the exposure was measured at the same time as the outcome or, even, outcome (−1) after it (e.g., during cancer treatment) Note: Criteria outlined by the Newcastle‐Ottawa quality assessment tool. Modifications were made according to the recommendations by Deeks et al. and thus the criteria include two additional questions assessing the appropriateness of the statistical methods and controlling for confounding. An additional modification was made assessing whether exposure and outcome status were determined simultaneously. 2.1.4 | Registration bystander EBV‐infected cells infiltrating the tumour. By com- parison, in situ hybridisation (ISH) can localise EBV to tumour This review was registered with PROSPERO‐ CRD42025647912. cells and, when performed using probes specific for the highly MDM is the guarantor of the work. abundant EBV‐encoded Epstein‐Barr Virus‐Encoded Small RNAs (EBERs), can detect EBV cells regardless of their stage of viral latency or whether they are undergoing lytic replication. While immunohistochemistry (IHC) can also localise EBV to 2.2 | Strength of Evidence Appraisal (GRADE) tumour cells, it is less sensitive
