Reviews in Medical Virology
KEYWORDS: ebv, cancer, suoires, ton, virus, epstein, barr, suoires ton, epstein barr, barr virus, studies, study, infection, sey, ton suoires


viral latency or whether they are undergoing lytic replication. While immunohistochemistry (IHC) can also localise EBV to 2.2 | Strength of Evidence Appraisal (GRADE) tumour cells, it is less sensitive than EBER‐ISH and antibodies specific for some EBV proteins may not detect all forms of viral For each EBV‐cancer hypothesis identified, we applied the latency. Combinations of PCR plus ISH plus/minus immuno- GRADE framework to assess certainty of evidence. In accordance histochemistry (IHC) within a single study were considered the with GRADE guidance, evidence from observational studies be- best evidence. The presence of multiple papers provided addi- gins at low certainty and can be downgraded or upgraded tional reassurance‐provided that test results were positive‐ depending on study characteristics. Downgrading was applied for particularly if only a single study had used PCR plus ISH plus/ risk of bias, inconsistency, indirectness, or imprecision; upgrad- minus IHC, but other studies also provided ISH plus/minus IHC ing was possible for large effect sizes, dose‐response relationships, evidence. or the plausible residual confounding in an analysis only possibly leading to an underestimate of the apparent treatment effect. For our analysis, after applying the framework, hypotheses rated at least low certainty were advanced. To maintain comparability, 2.4 | PAFs and EFs EBV and IM hypotheses were advanced in parallel when at least one met the threshold criteria (i.e., low certainty). Breast cancer For advanced hypotheses and where adjusted effect estimates was also retained post hoc, based on prior systematic review ev- were available, we calculated PAFs (percentage of cases in the idence supporting its plausibility . population attributable to EBV infection or IM) using Mietti- nen/Flegal's formula [14–16] and EFs (percentage of cases among the exposed attributable to EBV infection or IM) using 2.3 | Biological Plausibility standard approaches for case‐control studies . Calculations were limited to studies that adjusted for at least age and sex. For advanced hypotheses, we conducted separate, targeted, Adjusted odds ratios (ORs), risk ratios (RRs), or hazard ratios PubMed searches for molecular studies assessing EBV presence in (HRs) from eligible studies served as inputs for EF and PAF human tumour tissue. Following the criteria from a prior review calculations. Studies of EBV infection were required to report , we classified evidence combining three considerations using either IgG‐viral capsid antigen (VCA) or IgG‐EBV nuclear together‐the types of test used, whether samples tested positive, antigen (EBNA) , as these are indicative of recent or
