Reviews in Medical Virology
KEYWORDS: ebv, cancer, suoires, ton, virus, epstein, barr, suoires ton, epstein barr, barr virus, studies, study, infection, sey, ton suoires


three considerations using either IgG‐viral capsid antigen (VCA) or IgG‐EBV nuclear together‐the types of test used, whether samples tested positive, antigen (EBNA) , as these are indicative of recent or past and the number of papers. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) ev- infection. If a study presented results for multiple relevant idence alone was considered weakest (although the test has the antibody/antigen combinations, all were extracted. If a mixture benefit of being highly sensitive) because it cannot exclude of antigen/antibody combinations were reported, these were 4 of 30 Reviews in Medical Virology, 2026 extracted so long as at least one relevant combination was confirming that outcomes were absent at baseline, applying included. appropriate statistical methods, and adequately controlling for confounding (Appendix 3). However, only half (3/6, 50%) re- ported fully representative cohorts, and two‐thirds (4/6, 66%) 2.5 | GLOBOCAN and IHME clearly described losses to follow‐up or met the predefined threshold for attrition. We obtained global and country‐specific incidence data for the advanced hypotheses from GLOBOCAN (2022) and the GBD Among the case‐control studies, most studies had representative Study (2021) using the most recent releases available from each cases (i.e., minimal risk of selection bias) (23/27, 85%), an source. Both datasets provide age‐standardised incidence rates adequate case definition (26/27, 96%), an adequate definition for by cancer type and country, but rely on different modelling the controls (25/27, 93%), appropriate ascertainment of the approaches; therefore, data from both were extracted to provide exposure (24/27, 89%), used the same method to assess the complementary estimates of global burden. exposure in both groups (26/27, 96%), appropriate statistical methods (25/27, 93%), and accounted for confounding (23/27, 85%) (Appendix 4). Eight (30%) received lower scores for simultaneous ascertainment of exposure and outcome including 2.6 | Length of Time Until Onset of Cancer one (1/8, 13%) that measured the exposure after the outcome. For hypotheses involving IM, we extracted data on the time interval between IM diagnosis and subsequent cancer onset 3.3 | Literature Review Strength of Evidence from eligible studies identified in the initial literature review. Timing data were only available and analysed for advanced IM‐ In total, 30 hypotheses were identified in the literature review related hypotheses. and evaluated using the GRADE framework (Appendix 5). Two studies that reported on NHL specified analyses on chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), prolymphocytic leukaemia 2.7 | Biomarkers (PLL), small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) subtypes . As the authors classified these
