Reviews in Medical Virology
KEYWORDS: ebv, cancer, suoires, ton, virus, epstein, barr, suoires ton, epstein barr, barr virus, studies, study, infection, sey, ton suoires


Two studies that reported on NHL specified analyses on chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), prolymphocytic leukaemia 2.7 | Biomarkers (PLL), small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) subtypes . As the authors classified these as subsets of NHL (rather than To identify biomarkers predictive of cancer development before leukaemia), they were treated as NHL throughout this analysis. those cancers), separate targeted PubMed searches were con- Among the EBV infection hypotheses, low certainty evidence ducted. Inclusion criteria comprised studies reporting on large was identified for two (2/13, 15%)‐ cervical and ovarian cancers. population‐based cohorts, and‐when available‐quantifiable Cervical cancer was rated as ‘not serious’ across all relevant diagnostic performance metrics, such as sensitivity, specificity, or domains. Ovarian cancer was not taken further within the re- the area under the curve (AUC) were sought. This assessment was view because its effect estimates suggested a protective associ- performed only for advanced hypotheses. ation. All remaining EBV infection hypotheses had very low certainty evidence. One leukaemia study showed inconsistent findings by age group, with older participants showing a 3 | Results possible protective association and younger participants a po- tential increased risk . 3.1 | Literature Review Search Results Among the IM‐cancer hypotheses, low certainty evidence was After searching three databases and deduplication, the literature observed for NHL, leukaemia, male genital, multiple myeloma search returned 9077 papers, of which 33 met our inclusion (MM), prostate and testicular (6/17, 35%). Prostate, MM and criteria (Figure 1, Appendix 2). NHL were initially downgraded to very low, then upgraded due to large effect sizes. Leukaemia and testicular cancers were Studies were present from all world regions. Twenty‐seven rated as ‘not serious’ across all relevant domains. The male (27/33, 82%) were case‐control designs and six (18%) were genital hypothesis was not taken further in the review due to cohort studies. Twenty‐four (73%) examined EBV infection and neutral effect estimate from a single study. The rest of the hy- nine (27%) examined IM. One (3%) reported infection results for potheses had very low certainty evidence. EBV DNA only. Several studies specifically examined serocon- version following EBV infection (e.g., Cox et al. ), while Across both EBV infection and IM, 13 hypothesis (43%) were others used IgM to detect recent EBV infection (e.g., Dagash advanced to the next stage. Six (6/13, 46%) were advanced et al. ). The cancers investigated ranged from breast cancer because they were rated low certainty (EBV infection‐cervical, to leukaemia; some
