Reviews in Medical Virology
KEYWORDS: ebv, cancer, suoires, ton, virus, epstein, barr, suoires ton, epstein barr, barr virus, studies, study, infection, sey, ton suoires


to the next stage. Six (6/13, 46%) were advanced et al. ). The cancers investigated ranged from breast cancer because they were rated low certainty (EBV infection‐cervical, to leukaemia; some studies used the same underlying datasets to IM‐NHL, IM‐leukaemia, IM‐MM, IM‐prostate and IM‐testic- look at multiple cancers for example Cai et al. . ular). Three (23%) EBV infection hypotheses were advanced because their corresponding IM hypotheses met the low cer- tainty threshold (EBV infection‐leukaemia, EBV infection‐NHL, 3.2 | Literature Review Quality Assessment EBV infection‐testicular). One (8%) IM hypothesis (IM‐female genital) was advanced as the corresponding EBV infection‐ Overall, the cohort studies were broadly well‐conducted, per- cervical hypothesis was rated low. The IM‐leukaemia finding forming strongly in the selection of the non‐exposed cohort, also supported inclusion of the broader ‘IM‐other haematologic’ Reviews in Medical Virology, 2026 5 of 30 FIGURE 1 | PRISMA diagram of included studies. PRISMA diagram charts the number of records excluded at the different stages of the screening process. category (1/13, 8%), which was later subdivided by haematologic EBV/EBV‐IM‐NHL studies likely represent a broad array of subtype. EBV infection‐CLL/PLL/SLL, EBV infection‐diffuse NHL subtypes. Of the six contributing studies, one (17%) con- large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL), or EBV infection‐follicular tained solely samples that tested negative. That study only tested lymphoma (FL) were not advanced individually because doing 14 samples. Restricting to the five remaining studies, two (40%) so would move from a broader to a more specific classification reported results for PCR plus ISH plus/minus IHC evidence, of NHL. Nonetheless, global burden data are later presented by and two (40%) others ISH evidence plus/minus IHC evidence. NHL subtype. Of the two EBV/EBV‐IM‐testicular cancer studies, one (50%)‐ Hypotheses advanced to the next stage had to demonstrate that which undertook PCR, ISH and IHC testing‐reported Epstein‐ EBV infection or IM acted as a risk factor, not a protective or Barr Virus‐Encoded Small RNAs (EBER) detection only in neutral exposure. reactive lymphocytes, not tumour cells. This study was thus essentially disregarded. Although PCR plus ISH plus IHC evi- Finally, we reinstated the EBV infection‐ and IM‐breast hy- dence was reported in the second and samples tested positive, potheses (2/13, 15%) for advancement, given the results of the should be treated with caution due to the use of an in‐house prior systematic review that we used as a framework to guide probe. the biological plausibility assessment . Among the six EBV/EBV‐IM‐leukaemia
