Reviews in Medical Virology
KEYWORDS: ebv, cancer, suoires, ton, virus, epstein, barr, suoires ton, epstein barr, barr virus, studies, study, infection, sey, ton suoires


strongly associ- from IHME. Both IHME and GLOBOCAN reported separate preferentially capture the subgroup most relevant to risk. Evi- of NHL, but not the PLL and SLL subtypes. dence remains limited, however, on whether IM severity mod- ifies cancer risk, and hospitalisation is an imperfect proxy that There was substantial country‐by‐country variation in the age‐ varies across settings. Accordingly, PAF estimates for IM should standardised incidence rates of the cancers (Appendix 7). No be interpreted cautiously and are context‐dependent. Among data were available for MM. EBV infection hypotheses, NHL and testicular had the highest PAFs, supported by multiple studies. For IM, breast cancer had the lowest value (0.02%) and NHL the highest, again across 3.7 | Length of Time Until Onset multiple studies. A single study reported data on latency between IM and the EFs ranged between 12.3% (IM‐breast cancer) and 85.1% (EBV diagnosis of the cancer of interest . Using hospitalisation infection‐NHL). Where cancers were represented for both EBV data from England, UK, the study found that 10/12 (83%) of exposures, in contrast to PAFs, for which differences reflected which by common practise in cancer epidemiology is excluded the large disparity in exposure prevalence. due to the potential for reverse causality. These PAF and EF estimates are study‐specific. As EBV infec- tion is nearly universal, even small effect estimates yield large 3.8 | Biomarkers PAFs. The very high seroprevalence among cancer cases (e.g., > 90% for testicular cancer) likely reflects background One study assessed whether biomarkers could predict our can- infection rates rather than true etiologic attribution. cers of interest . Among men 40–59 years of age, higher midlife prostate‐specific antigen (PSA) levels were strongly predictive of increased long‐term risk of prostate cancer (AUC 3.6 | GLOBOCAN and IHME 0.75–0.83, depending upon age and whether the cancer was lethal). Among the cancers of interest, global age‐standardised inci- dence rates were highest for breast and prostate cancer (Figure 2). According to IHME estimates, the age‐standardised 4 | Discussion incidence rates were 46.8 per 100,000 person years for breast cancer and 29.4 per 100,000 person years for prostate cancer. We conducted a literature review with accompanying quality GLOBOCAN reported corresponding rates of 24.6 (due to assessment, GRADE, and biological plausibility assessments to FIGURE 2 | Global age‐standardised incidence rates of the cancers of interest. Age‐standardised incidence rates per 100,000 person years from GLOBOCAN (2022, light green) and IHME (2021, dark green)
