Reviews in Medical Virology
KEYWORDS: ebv, cancer, suoires, ton, virus, epstein, barr, suoires ton, epstein barr, barr virus, studies, study, infection, sey, ton suoires


to FIGURE 2 | Global age‐standardised incidence rates of the cancers of interest. Age‐standardised incidence rates per 100,000 person years from GLOBOCAN (2022, light green) and IHME (2021, dark green) for the cancers of interest. Numbers at the top of the columns indicate the precise numbers. Note that the GLOBOCAN breast cancer data are for females only, IHME data are for males and females. Prostate, cervical and 8 of 30 Reviews in Medical Virology, 2026 evaluate cancers potentially associated with EBV infection and cohort studies identified within our review, and followed pre- IM beyond BL, HL, GC and NPC. For cancers advanced on their ceding epidemiological studies and biological experiments for GRADE results, we summarised available data on disease example . Again, the exact mechanism of EBV action is burden, timing onset after IM, PAFs, EFs, and biomarkers. subject to debate . Finally, large pooled analyses from in- ternational collaborations, such as the InterLymph consortium, Table 6summarises findings for the eight cancers advanced for have also contributed substantially to understanding lymphoma further evaluation (breast, cervical, leukaemia, MM, NHL, other risk factors, including infectious exposures such as EBV . haematologic, prostate, and testicular) grouped into six broader cancer categories. Across these categories, NHL, MM and prostate Strengths of this work include its staged approach integrating cancer demonstrated the largest EFs (either as standalone esti- multiple complementary assessments (i.e., literature synthesis, mates or within a range), while NHL and testicular cancer showed quality appraisal, GRADE evaluation, and biological plausibility the largest PAFs within their respective grouping (i.e., EBV assessment) to triangulate evidence on EBV‐associated cancers. infection or IM). Breast cancer and NHL had the greatest weight This multidimensional approach allowed for additional context to of evidence for biological plausibility, cervical and prostate can- characterise the strength and coherence of evidence across cers the least. Despite using an array of tests, the testicular cancer diverse study designs. The use of predefined GRADE criteria and studies were limited in their evidence. Only prostate cancer had an explicit set of modifications to the Newcastle‐Ottawa Scale an identified predictive biomarker, and only NHL had informa- enhanced transparency and reproducibility. By combining tion on the timing of onset following IM. The highest global epidemiologic and biological perspectives, the review also pro- burdens were observed for breast, cervical and prostate cancers. vides a foundation for prioritising hypotheses with the greatest potential biological relevance, which can inform future mecha-
