Reviews in Medical Virology
KEYWORDS: ebv, cancer, suoires, ton, virus, epstein, barr, suoires ton, epstein barr, barr virus, studies, study, infection, sey, ton suoires


the review also pro- burdens were observed for breast, cervical and prostate cancers. vides a foundation for prioritising hypotheses with the greatest potential biological relevance, which can inform future mecha- Our findings complement and extend evidence from cancers nistic and observational work. with established EBV associations, recognising that the proof of such causal links often emerged over decades. For example, in Limitations include single‐reviewer screening, limited inclusion the case of BL in the 1960s, the presence of replication‐ of non‐English databases, and heterogeneity in study quality and competent EBV in tumour cells provided strong biological generalisability. The GRADE process, though structured and plausibility, although the exact pathogenic mechanism remains transparent, involves some subjective interpretation in how evi- uncertain . The most compelling evidence to date for an dence is pooled and hypotheses are grouped. For example, the EBV‐MS association came from a large, long‐term epidemio- large effect sizes reported by Goldacre et al. for IM‐pancreatic logical study in US Army recruits, published in 2022 . This cancer was subsumed under the broader digestive cancer hy- landmark study paralleled the design and rigour of the largest pothesis. Similarly, effect sizes for IM‐oral cavity, pharynx, and lip TABLE 6 | Summary table of advanced exposure‐outcome hypotheses. Exposure‐outcome GRADE PAF/EFs Burden estimates Biomarkers Timing data hypothesis rating calculable? found? found? found? EBV infection associated with: Breast Very low No Yes No N/A Cervical Low Yes Yes No N/A Leukaemia Very low Yes Yes No N/A NHL Very low Yes Yes No N/A Testicular Very low Yes Yes Yes N/A IM associated with: Breast Very low Yes Yes No No Female genital Very low No Yes No No Leukaemia Low Yes Yesa No No MM Low Yes Yes No No NHL Low Yes Yes No Yes Other haematologic Very low Yes Yesb No No Prostate Low Yes Yes Yesc No Testicular Low Yes Yes No No Note: Summary of findings for the advanced hypotheses, including data availability. Burden estimates, and biomarkers assessed for the cancer, not for the hypothesis. Abbreviations: EBV, Epstein‐Barr virus; EF, etiologic fraction; IM, infectious mononucleosis; MM, multiple myeloma; NHL, non‐Hodgkin lymphoma; PAF, population attributable fraction. aThe burden of leukaemia was assessed in subtypes where possible in IHME and GLOBOCAN. bAlthough no overall burden estimate was available for other haematologic cancers, this was noted as ‘yes’ due to the availability of relevant subtype data. cAlthough no IM‐specific biomarkers were identified, biomarkers
