Reviews in Medical Virology
KEYWORDS: ebv, cancer, suoires, ton, virus, epstein, barr, suoires ton, epstein barr, barr virus, studies, study, infection, sey, ton suoires


interest, improved understanding of EBV's role in malignancy malignancies (i.e., BL, HL, GC, and NPC) and highlight the may also inform therapeutic or adjunctive strategies, including need for multidisciplinary research integrating epidemiologic, therapeutic vaccination, antiviral approaches, and immuno- clinical and laboratory approaches to clarify mechanisms and modulatory interventions. This may be particularly relevant for inform future prevention strategies. cancers with long latency or indirect viral involvement. Additionally, future research evaluating the link between EBV/ EBV‐IM and potentially related cancers should leverage large, nationally representative datasets and fit‐for‐purpose observa- Author Contributions tional study designs. A major gap in the evidence base is the lack H.R.S., M.D.M., G.S.T. and J.D.D. conceptualised the work. E.S. per- of longitudinal, biomarker‐based studies of EBV seroconversion formed the project administration for the work. M.D.M. curated and and subsequent infectious mononucleosis during adolescence, as analysed the data, the other authors supervised her doing this. M.D.M. such studies have largely focused on young adults or early and H.R.S. prepared the original draft, the other authors reviewed and childhood, despite adolescence being a critical risk period edited the work. [38–42]. Addressing this gap will require studies designed to accommodate long latency, low incidence, and secular trends in Funding cancer epidemiology. These studies should account for long la- M.D.M., G.S.T. and H.R.S. declare funding from Moderna Inc., for this tency, low incidence and secular trends of cancer epidemiology. work. Designs such as case‐cohort or nested case‐control studies, target trial emulation using routinely collected data, and quasi‐ Ethics Statement experimental approaches (e.g., interrupted time series or The authors have nothing to report. difference‐in‐differences analysis ) can strengthen causal inference. Increasingly, linked record systems, such as the Clin- ical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD) in the UK and Consent Scandinavian national registries, enable long‐term follow‐up, The authors have nothing to report. outcome validation‐ and through tokenised linkages‐the ability to combine randomised trial data with real‐world evidence . Conflicts of Interest Complementary laboratory studies, with careful assay selection to M.D.M., G.S.T. and H.R.S. declare funding from Moderna Inc., for this ensure robust methods of viral detection, could further support work. J.D.D. and E.S. are employees of Moderna and may hold stocks mechanistic understanding. and/or stock options. Outside of this work, G.S.T. has previously received money from Cancer Research UK, Blood Cancer UK, the UK with long latency, convergent evidence from observational, quasi‐ Birmingham to support his research team. H.R.S. has previously experimental, and mechanistic
