Chest Pain
KEYWORDS: pain, chest, patients, chest pain, findings, pulmonary, coronary, disorders, cause, acute, pulmonary embolism, heart, embolism, evaluation, myocardial


Chest pain is a very common presenting symptom. Many patients are well aware that it is a warning of potential life-threatening disorders and seek evaluation for minimal symptoms. Other patients, including many with serious disease, minimize or ignore its warnings. Pain perception (both character and severity) varies greatly between individuals as well as between males and females. However described, chest pain should never be dismissed without an explanation of its cause. Pathophysiology of Chest Pain The heart, lungs, esophagus, and great vessels provide afferent visceral input through the same thoracic autonomic ganglia. A painful stimulus in these organs is typically perceived as originating in the chest, but because afferent nerve fibers overlap in the dorsal ganglia, thoracic pain may be felt (as referred pain) anywhere between the umbilicus and the ear, including the upper extremities. Painful stimuli from thoracic organs can cause discomfort described as pressure, tearing, gas with the urge to eructate, indigestion, burning or aching. Uncommonly, other descriptions of chest pain are given such as stabbing or sharp needle-like pain. When the sensation is visceral in origin, many patients deny they are having pain and insist it is merely “discomfort.” Etiology of Chest Pain Many disorders cause chest pain or discomfort. These disorders may involve the cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, pulmonary, neurologic, or musculoskeletal systems (see table Some Causes of Chest Pain). Some disorders are immediately life threatening: Acute coronary syndromes (acute myocardial infarction/unstable angina) Thoracic aortic dissection Tension pneumothorax Esophageal rupture Pulmonary embolism (PE) 1/13 Other causes range from serious, potential threats to life to causes that are simply uncomfortable. Overall, the most common causes are Chest wall disorders (ie, those involving muscle, rib, or cartilage) Pleural disorders Gastrointestinal disorders (eg, gastroesophageal reflux disease, esophageal spasm, ulcer disease, cholelithiasis) Acute coronary syndromes and stable angina In some cases, no cause can be confirmed even after a full evaluation. TABLE Some Causes of Chest Pain Cause* Suggestive Findings Diagnostic Approach† Cardiovascular Serial ECGs and cardiac biomarkers Sometimes Acute, crushing pain echocardiogram radiating to the jaw or arm (traditional, POCUS, or both) Exertional pain relieved by 1 Myocardial ischemia rest (angina pectoris) Stress imaging test or CT (acute myocardial angiography considered in S4 gallop infarction/unstable patients with negative or angina/ angina) Sometimes systolic unchanged ECG findings murmurs of mitral and no cardiac biomarker regurgitation elevation on serial testing Often red flag findings‡ Often heart catheterization and coronary angiography if findings are
