Chest Pain
KEYWORDS: pain, chest, patients, chest pain, findings, pulmonary, coronary, disorders, cause, acute, pulmonary embolism, heart, embolism, evaluation, myocardial


flag findings‡ * Seriousness of causes varies as indicated: 1 Immediate life threats. 2 Potential life threats. 3 Uncomfortable but usually not dangerous. † Most patients with chest pain should have pulse oximetry, ECG, and chest radiography (basic tests). If there is suspicion of coronary ischemia, serum cardiac biomarkers (troponin, CK-MB) should also be checked. ‡ Red flag findings include abnormal vital signs (tachycardia, bradycardia, tachypnea, hypotension), signs of hypoperfusion (eg, confusion, ashen color, diaphoresis), shortness of breath, asymmetric breath sounds or pulses, new heart murmurs, or pulsus paradoxus > 10 mm Hg. BNP = brain (B-type) natriuretic peptide; CK-MB = creatine kinase, MB fraction; ESR = erythrocyte sedimentation rate; POCUS = point-of-care ultrasound; S4 = fourth heart sound; TEE = transesophageal echocardiogram. Evaluation of Chest Pain History History of present illness should note the location, duration, character, and quality of the pain. The patient should be asked about any precipitating events (eg, straining or overuse of chest muscles), as well as any triggering and relieving factors. Specific factors to note include whether pain is present during exertion or at rest, presence of psychologic stress, whether pain occurs during respiration or 7/13 coughing, difficulty swallowing, relationship to meals, and positions that relieve or exacerbate pain (eg, lying flat, leaning forward). Previous similar episodes and their circumstances should be noted with attention to the similarity or lack thereof and whether the episodes are increasing in frequency and/or duration. Important associated symptoms to seek include dyspnea, palpitations, syncope, diaphoresis, nausea or vomiting, cough, fever, and chills. Review of systems should seek symptoms of possible causes, including leg pain, swelling, or both (deep venous thrombosis [DVT] and therefore possible pulmonary embolism) and chronic weakness, malaise, and weight loss (cancer). Past medical history should document known causes, particularly cardiovascular and gastrointestinal (GI) disorders, and any cardiac investigations or procedures (eg, stress testing, catheterization). Risk factors for coronary artery disease (CAD—eg, hypertension, dyslipidemia, diabetes, cerebrovascular disease, tobacco use) or pulmonary embolism (eg, lower extremity injury, recent surgery, immobilization, known cancer, pregnancy) should also be noted. Drug history should note use of drugs that can trigger coronary artery spasm (eg, cocaine, triptans) or GI disease (particularly alcohol, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs). Family history should note history of myocardial infarction (particularly among first-degree relatives at an early age, ie, < 55 years in males and < 60 years in females) and dyslipidemia. Physical examination The extent of physical
