Chest Pain
KEYWORDS: pain, chest, patients, chest pain, findings, pulmonary, coronary, disorders, cause, acute, pulmonary embolism, heart, embolism, evaluation, myocardial


myocardial infarction (particularly among first-degree relatives at an early age, ie, < 55 years in males and < 60 years in females) and dyslipidemia. Physical examination The extent of physical examination is guided by clinical suspicion. Vital signs and weight are measured, and body mass index (BMI) can be calculated. Pulses are palpated in both arms and both legs, blood pressure is measured in both arms. General appearance is noted (eg, pallor, diaphoresis, cyanosis, anxiety). The neck is inspected for venous distention and hepatojugular reflux. The neck is palpated for carotid pulses, lymphadenopathy, or thyroid abnormality. The carotid arteries are auscultated for bruit. Lungs are percussed and auscultated for presence and symmetry of breath sounds, signs of congestion (dry or wet crackles, rhonchi), consolidation (pectoriloquy), pleural friction rubs, and effusion (decreased breath sounds, dullness to percussion). The cardiac examination notes the intensity and timing of the first heart sound (S1) and second heart sound (S2), the respiratory movement of the pulmonic component of S2, pericardial friction rubs, murmurs, and gallops. When murmurs are detected, the timing, duration, pitch, shape, and intensity and the response to changes of position, handgrip, and the Valsalva maneuver should be noted. When gallops are detected, differentiation should be made between the fourth heart sound (S4), which is often present with diastolic dysfunction or myocardial ischemia, and the third heart sound (S3), which is present with systolic dysfunction. The chest is inspected for skin lesions due to trauma or herpes zoster infection and palpated for crepitance (suggesting subcutaneous air) and tenderness. The abdomen is palpated for tenderness, 8/13 organomegaly, and masses or tenderness, particularly in the epigastric and right upper quadrant regions. The legs are examined for arterial pulses, adequacy of perfusion, edema, varicose veins, and signs of DVT (eg, swelling, erythema, tenderness). Pulsus paradoxus may be measured if there is clinical concern for pericardial tamponade (distant heart sounds, jugular venous distension, unexplained dyspnea, tachycardia, or hypotension). Red flags Certain findings raise suspicion of a more serious etiology of chest pain: Abnormal vital signs (tachycardia, bradycardia, tachypnea, hypotension) Signs of hypoperfusion (eg, confusion, ashen color, diaphoresis) Shortness of breath Hypoxemia on pulse oximetry Asymmetric breath sounds or pulses New heart murmurs Pulsus paradoxus > 10 mm Hg Interpretation of findings Symptoms and signs of thoracic disorders vary greatly, and those of serious and nonserious conditions often overlap. Although red flag findings indicate a high likelihood of
