Chest Pain
KEYWORDS: pain, chest, patients, chest pain, findings, pulmonary, coronary, disorders, cause, acute, pulmonary embolism, heart, embolism, evaluation, myocardial


be used for diagnosis. Associated findings may also suggest a cause. Fever is nonspecific but, if accompanied by cough, suggests a pulmonary cause. Patients with Raynaud syndrome or migraine sometimes have coronary spasm. The presence or absence of risk factors for CAD (eg, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, smoking, obesity, diabetes, positive family history) alters the probability of underlying CAD but does not help diagnose the cause of a given episode of acute chest pain. Patients with those factors may well have another cause of chest pain, and patients without them may have an acute coronary syndrome. However, known CAD in a patient with chest pain raises the likelihood of that diagnosis as the cause (particularly if the patient describes the symptoms as “like my angina” or “like my last heart attack”). A history of peripheral vascular disease also raises the likelihood that angina is the cause of chest pain. Testing Testing can involve ECG, cardiac biomarkers, and imaging tests (1). For adults with acute chest pain, immediate life threats must be ruled out. Most patients should initially have pulse oximetry, ECG, and chest radiographs. Sometimes, particularly in patients with hemodynamic instability, either a point-of- care ultrasound (POCUS) or a complete echocardiogram can also be useful in further evaluating potential life-threatening causes (2). Echocardiography can be particularly useful in identifying left ventricular or right ventricular dysfunction, evidence of right ventricular pressure overload, valvular pathology, pericardial effusions, and signs of pericardial tamponade. If symptoms suggest an acute coronary syndrome or if no other cause is clear (particularly in patients who are at risk), troponin levels are measured. Expeditious evaluation is essential because if myocardial infarction or other acute coronary syndrome is present, the patient should be considered for urgent heart catheterization (when available). Immediate catheterization is indicated in patients with ST- elevation on ECG or in patients with non–ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) plus high-risk features (eg, hypotension, ventricular arrhythmias, persistent chest pain despite optimal medical management), or high risk score (GRACE risk score [3]). In these patients, catheterization within 90 minutes of arrival is considered standard of care. For patients at low risk and possible NSTEMI, non- urgent catheterization along with expeditious non-invasive medical management can be pursued. Some abnormal findings on these tests confirm a diagnosis (eg, acute myocardial infarction, pneumothorax, pneumonia). Other abnormalities suggest a diagnosis or at least the need to pursue further investigation (eg, abnormal aortic contour on chest
